We visited La Lanterna last weekend on a short visit to Edinburgh. It was recommended on Tripadvisor and we were advised to book. It was a Saturday night so we got an early sitting for 6.00. The place was so busy but yet had a great relaxed atmosphere. The food was excellent throughout. It was most definitely so fresh and cooked to order and although we left nice and full, we weren't too stuffed. Service was also excellent with really genuine, friendly staff. If you're looking for authentic Italian food that is of high quality with great service levels, then I'd highly recommend the restaurant. We were fortunate to find a few very good restaurants on our short visit but will definitely be returning here the next time we're in town.So glad I had a look at trip advisor before deciding to eat here. My wife and I were in Edinburgh for a long weekend away and were looking to eat Italian. As one of the top rated restaurants in Edinburgh we thought we would give it a go and it was fantastic. Really traditional, family run Italian. Minestrone and bruschetta starters were delicious. Wife went for what I thought was 'bog standard' spag bol but it was really tasty...in fact the best she had ever had! I went for gnocchi as a lot of supposed Italian places don't seem to sell it and I am glad I did! A tiramisu (home made) and a latte later we headed back to the hotel after what we think was the best Italian we have had. Beats Jamie's place any day and for just over 40 (we had a couple of soft drinks) it was good value too!! Give it a go if you are nearby!!!Really nice food and a good family run restaurant with a very welcoming and friendly service. So glad we came across this restaurant, and will definately visit again when in Edinburgh.Popped in on our honeymoon break and were impressed by the friendly service, very reasonable prices and lovely food. the Bolognese was super and my wife's seafood risotto was lush Thank you Trip Advisor for pointing me to this lovely little Italian hidden away just off Princes Street/George Street! Had a wonderful bowl of spaghetti with a glass of wine for lunch. Was so cheap for its location. Tasted wonderful and was just the right amount for the middle of the day. Glad to have found this place. And they taught me how to eat spaghetti properly! Popped in here for tea last night, had looked at various places for tips on tripadvisor before going, we were made very welcome, staff courteous, friendly & very attentive. 
Shared a starter, then we each had a different Pasta dish (was on average £10) - initally looked like a reserved helping but was more than suffice, infact the food was very tasty & hit just the right spot.
Would have no hesitation in recommending, only thing that was odd - no pizza on the menu :0 Your made to feel like they are really happy to see you whether you are a returning customer or if it's your first visit. Food is fantastic and so fresh.
A warm welcome awaits you at this italien eaterie.The staff are really lovely.The food was fresh and tasty,good valve for money.in my opinion there are better italien restaurants in Edinburgh,but all in all we had a nice lunch here. 
If you what good food & good service at a reasonable price in Edinburgh look no further then Lla Laterna in Hanover Street Just had meal here, food excellent, service excellent owners and staff extremely welcoming and friendly, my 3rd time and all extremely good! Portion size just enough don't understand why anyone wud give it a bad review!!!Brilliant little restaurant. Go for the antipasti platter to start ( had the mixed ).....what a way to start.....followed by some sexy pizza.....if you are a pizza fan, this place should be on your list. Am going back......thanks guys Delightful and intimate place that serves arguably the best pizza in Edinburgh. Very reasonably priced and exemplary service that makes you just want to go back for more. Thoroughly recommended and have often taken friends who have also been taken aback by the this great place.Brilliant atmosphere, lovely cosy place, service brilliant, food second to non, good wine - nuf said! I must have been here nearly 10 times now, with various different people, and we nearly all agree that this is the best pizza in Edinburgh. The restaurant is small and cozy, and the service never lets you down. If they're busy there can sometimes be a bit of a wait for food, but it's a small price to pay. Speaking of which, the food here offers great value for money. I shall be back soon! While this restaurant has been around for a while we have only just found it - and what a find. Fantastic fresh and delicious food and great staff, who couldn't be more helpful. Its a small restaurant, with around 10 tables. Candles on all the tables and some nice music - at just the right level - create an intimate atmosphere, with an eclectic clientele. The antipasti is delicious and the pizzas are so tasty and light - not your usual run of the mill. The pasta also looks great, but we haven't tried that yet. They also have a good selection of wine and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks. Went on Sat night, 2 adults and 2 young kids. Lovely little intimate Italian with great personnel service. Restaurant is small, roughly 22-25 covers. They do offer a kids menu and they were good with the kids, however the size of the restaurant probably lends itself more to couples/adult parties. Just conscious that restaurant is small and wary that the kids were behaving themselves and not making too much noise. They love Pizza Express which is normally filled with young families and excitable kids are the norm, but just fancied a change. 

Food and service were great and we were made to feel very welcome. Would definitely recommend and would return.
Visited on Friday 22nd February, great food - starters, mains and Sweets were all amazing washed down with a nice bottle of wine and all at a very reasonable price - will definitely go back !

We went to Origano on a rainy Sunday in Feb and were made to feel warmly welcomed. The place is small and cosy with vintage Italianate decor, candles and wooden floors. We had the large antipasti platter to share and then three pizzas; all were crispy, flavourful, packed with fresh and tasty good quality ingredients. I asked for something different than what was listed and it was provided no trouble at all, and the service was attentive, friendly but not invasive. We picked this place for our mum's birthday lunch and it was spot on; a true treat for people who like good food, excellent value for money, welcoming surroundings. Well done Origano! Origano is a small atmospheric restaurant on Leith Walk. The staff are very friendly and the pizzas are to die for. Everything is prepared on the premises and the wine is very reasonably priced - try the Nero D'Avolo! This place is very popular so it is wise to book. Enjoy! I love this little place, I am not a big pizza fan but teh pizza here is heaven... Very small restairant but very nice feel, close the door and Leith Walk feels like a million miles away.
My wife and I recently had a short break in Edinburgh and booked Bar Frizzante following excellent reviews on Tripadvisor. We went on a Monday evening and the weather was terrible so the restaurant was very quiet. On arriving we got 1st class service from the waitress who has apparently been working for the owner (well, owner's dad) for the past 25 years. After ordering (following some very genuine nice compliments by the waitress) we were provided with a home made appetiser of chickpeas and rice on the house. Unique but very nice and well recieved on the cold night. Our starters were lovely (bruschetta and soup) and the main courses were also very tasty (pizza and a chicken dish with vegetables and a beautiful homemade mushroom and white wine sauce). All the food was so fresh. When asked if we would like dessert, we were invited to come and look and choose ourselves - I indulged in beautiful profiteroles. As the restaurant was quiet, we started to chat with the waitress and the owners father, Pasquale (owner was off so his father (who is a reitired restauranteur) was helping out). About 90 minutes later, we were still chatting. Fantastic, intriguing guys and the stories showed exactly the type of business man Pasquale was. To have a waitress work with you for c.25 years says a lot about the man and how he must run his business. Such a unique and interesting night. Great to find a restaurant where the owner and staff are absolute genuine and so passionate about the food and services they provide. We finished off with a little liquer (also on the house). Would highly recommend Bar Frizzante for food and service. Ended up going there twice on consecutive nights it's that good!

Staff are amazing with a real passion for the city and the food is really lovely. 

Will make a point of going again next time I visit Edinburgh.I used to be a regular customer at Pasquale's old restaurant L'amore, so I was delighted when I stumbled across Pasquale's newest venture called Bar Frizzante on Lothian Road. This family owned restaurant was excellent from start to finish, the staff were extremely friendly and professional and although the restaurant was full we managed to get a table within around 5 minutes (remember to book ahead if you are going on a Saturday). I can recommend the mussels as a main course and in true style I couldn't help but finish the meal with my personal favourite, tiramisu. If you are looking for an authentic Italian restaurant in the heart of Edinburgh with recipes handed down through generations at a reasonable price, this is the only place to go. I look forward to visiting again soon! 
Lovely, small family run Italian restaurant and bar in Lothian Road just up from The Usher Hall. 
Tasty food and great staff looked after us well and chatted about our trip and what we had been up to that day.
Highly reccomend a visit What more can I say. Excellent food, great wine list with some absolute gems and friendly service all at a price that won't break the bank. This was my first time in this restaurant-I'll be back
Love this place. Always wonderful service with wonderful food. Staff very friendly and attentive. Very good for large table celebrations and birthday party meals. Good ethos for special requirements, & more than welcome to pop in for a drink and pudding or just a drink if you fancy. Not a bad word to say :) What can I say we have been enjoying Pasquale's food for more years than I can remember. When he decided to retire he was a TREMENDOUS loss to the Italian cuisine scene. Imagine my delight when by chance I went on to Trip Advisor to look for an Italian restaurant and found that Pasquale was back from retirement and had taken over Il Frizzante about a year ago. it was my birthday and I was being taken out for lunch by my husband. And what a lunch it was - I still can't believe that I found Pasqale again. His cooking was even better than I remembered it if that is at all possible. My husband always judges an Italian restaurant by the bolognese sauce and could not find fault with Pasquale's. If you want to try a starter that s a little different try the 
Parmigiana Nonna Carmela which is a recipe passed down to Pasquale by his mother Carmela. 
All in all we had a delicious meal and made my birthday perfect. We are lucky enough to live in Edinburgh and Il Frizzante will definitely be on our regular eating out list. DO VISIT YOU WON'T BE DISAPPOINTED. I read one of the reviews which gave the restaurant one star!! Go figure!!
My boyfriend and I were looking for somewhere to eat out and found this place on Trip advisor. I called to make a reservation on the phone and they couldn't have been more helpful and friendly. We were slightly late so I called them to let them know and I was told this wasn't a problem and our table would be waiting for us. When we arrived the staff were cheerful and welcoming. Our service was consistently speedy and efficient throughout the entire meal without losing the warmth and friendliness. The food was amazing, I had the mussels to start and then the sirloin diana and my boyfriend had the bruschetta then pizza. Would recommend all, the portions sizes were perfect and it was excellent value for money. The desserts had a generous helping and were tasty also. Our waitress, Livia, was fantastic and easy to chat to while not being imposing. The manager Johnny was a pleasure to meet as well. My favourite thing about this place was that you felt like they got to know you and had a lovely homey atmosphere. Can't wait to go back! Me and my husband had the most delicious meal here. The lady who served us was just lovely and so friendly as was the owner who put real attention to detail in making our night perfect !!!
Would recommend this restaurant to anyone as the food is amazing and the sevice, friendliness and atmosphere was brilliant. The price was also very very good. me and my husband went here while visiting edinbourgh for our wedding anniversary, it was a very relaxing evening with nice back-ground music. the food was lovely we both had soup, i had pizza and it was very nice, the hubby had chicken and mushrooms in a creamy sauce (cant remember the proper name) he said it was also very nice. the staff were soooooo friendly and extremely helpful!! its a family run business, and was nice to see the whole family working so well together.. excellent service, excellent food . we will 100% be visiting them next time were in edinbourgh. My wife and i spent the weekend in Edinburgh. And whilst in a pub used the trip advisor app to find local good food. It came up with with this gem. We received a very warm welcome from the staff and owner. Ordered a couple of beers and a garlic bread with cheese to share both went down nicely. For main course i had sea food pasta and my wife had lasagne. i can honestly say it was the best pasta dish i have ever eaten. My wife also enjoyed her lasagne both dishes cleared. The lady that served us was lovely and we had a nice chat. The owner came over also a real character I felt like we could have sat there all evening chatting and enjoying the atmosphere, company and drinks. 
I cannot wait to go back. Really good spot well worth finding when in Edinburgh. Went with my husband and my son's future in-laws along with two of their relatives last Saturday (2nd March). We have been there before and have always found the food excellent and the staff so friendly and we are made very welcome. Our friends who had not been there before, were very impressed with the food, welcome and very friendly atmosphere. They, like ourselves, thoroughly enjoyed their evening and are looking forward to taking their family to the restaurant for their next night out. Once again, a great night out made special by all the staff. You have to visit Bar Frizzante whether you live in Edinburgh or are passing through. I had a "special birthday" meal here with friends and family a fortnight ago. Pasquale, Livia, Lorraine and the rest of the team looked after us so well and the food was exceptional - they really made it a night to remember. Suffice to say I've already been back twice with friends all of whom raved about it and will be returning! I'm already planning and looking forward to my next visit! And remember to ask Pasquale to do his party trick - but stay still and don't move!! My partner and I had read such great reviews on Trip Advisor so simply had to try this restaurant out and we were not disappointed, we even went back the following night ! Fantastic Italian food, menu choice, reasonable prices and first class service. The staff are incredible warm and friendly so Bar Frizzante is a must if you are staying in Edinburgh. My husband & I went for a meal at Bar Frizzante after reading the many good reviews on Trip Advisor.

We had a delicious meal which couldn't be faulted made even better by the friendly & helpful staff.

A big thank you to Jonny & his Dad for making our trip to Edinburgh all the more special. We only wish we lived closer so that we could go to the restaurant on a more regular basis!! Went here early on a Saturday night. Service was pleasant, especially the Italian gentleman who was amusing and nice. Food was fine, but just that, really no better or worse than a big chain. Because of the reviews we expected something much better, so were disappointed. Have had much tastier Italian meals than this. My partner and i opted for bar frizzante as it was no 1 for italian food in edinburgh. I had high hopes as we are celebrating our anniversary in the city. I wish i hadnt chose the hell hole. The food was shocking. We ordered garlic bread with cheese to share. All that could be tasted was cooking oil. Having left that. We had ordered pollo alla panna. I really wish i didnt as again the food tasted of cooking oil. And was disapointed. My partner ordered a pasta dish which was average at best. I wouldnt recomend this place to anybody. Pizza express is miles better and thats average. The staff must be writing all the reviews on this place. I was up in Edinburgh for two nights and we had our evening meal at Bar Frizzante on Valentine's day. We were warmly welcomed by the staff and shown straight to our table, despite arriving slightly early for our reservation. The decor was romantic but tasteful, with very clever candles that turned to hearts on the tables and no tacky decorations. The surrounding are lovely: cosy and atmospheric. 

All three of the courses were superb. The menu was large without being overwhelming with a number of original dishes on offer. I opted for the lobster filled pasta which was perfectly cooked and, like the rest of the menu, very reasonable. In total, 3 courses plus drinks came to under £30 per person. A fantastic experience from start to finish which I highly recommend. Myself and my girlfriend visited this family run italian restaurant after seeing some good reviews on here and it doesnt disappoint!! Firstly their homemade cocktails are fantastic and really hit the spot if you don't fancy beer or wine. The food is absolutely beautiful, cooked to perfection. The dessert were also very nice, so much choice! The icing on the cake was most definitely the staff, really down to earth and chatty, the lady even took a couple of pictures of us to remember the occasion :) overall one of the best meals we have ever had! We hope to visit again next time we venture north of the border!
Much love to all the staff from Danny and Natasha Went here as part of the pre theatre offer. Excellent food & service & good value for money but the bottles of lager we're a but expensive however still deserves 5 stars. What can i say about this place : how about WOW me and my partner came here for our anniversary meal and everything was perfect the food the service everything nice friendly atmosphere the staff really take care of you .... And if you are ever in endinburgh you have got to visit this place we are back in august and will be def coming back thank you bar frizzante After reading all the reviews on here I didn't want to get my hopes up, however I knew we'd made the right choice when after my wife's first mouthful of Lasagne she declared it was the best one she had ever tasted! My breaded Veal was simple but delicious, every mouthful was a joy. The house wine complimented the meal perfectly too. The owner Pasquali as previously mentioned is a real character and very attentive in his service, as was the female waitress who really looked after us. They even did us an amazing dessert when they could see we had trouble deciding what to have, by including a bit of everything! Overall would definitely recommend this to friends and family. 
Visited Bar Frizzante for Valentine's day dinner. Staff were friendly and jovial (even gave us a free half bottle of wine when they spilled a few drops of the last one!). Food was delicious and cost was less than expected. All in all a great restaurant! Highly recommended! We ate here on a Monday night around 7 so the restaurant was quite quiet . The service was very good and the food very tasty. My wife had mussels and sea bass and I had minestrone soup and the breaded veal and the kids had pizza and pasta. Everybody thoroughly enjoyed it. The owner was quite a character and came over and chatted and was very friendly. He even gave us a Limoncello on the house as both my wife and I were drinking them that night as we were not driving thankfully. I would recommend the place and I'm sure it will be buzzing at the weekends. The food was tasty (garlic, garlic, garlic!), fresh, and the portions were massive! I went for mussels and sea bass whilst my boyfriend went for calamari and steak - not to mention the olives, cheesy garlic bread and pudding we had! It was absolutely beautiful, but definitely not what stands out the most for me. The owner Pasquali and our waitress Olivia, made the night for us. They were friendly and very attentive. Pasquali, circulated the room all evening, going from table to table, checking everyone was happy and he was more than keen to show off a couple of party tricks including a Dean Martin impression or two.. This restaurant is the kind of place were people go back time and time again and I wish we lived closer so we could too!!!! Sandwiched between the bigger restaurants on Lothian Road, it'd be easy not to notice this place. Really glad we saw it though. Extremely friendly and excellent service. Food was very good and the pre theatre menu is great value with a wide choice. Highly recommend it. We had a family meal in Bar Frizzante last Friday night. Good choice of items on the menu - we all had different starters, main courses and desserts. The veal was particularly good. I don't normally bother with a dessert, but the strawberry cheesecake was irresistable. The excellent food was washed down with a very nice house white and some Morreti beer. Service was very friendly and efficient. A very relaxed, pleasant evening was had by all - highly recommended. Quite simply, this place is amazing!!! We went as a group of age '30 - 40 something's' in a Hen party and had SUCH a special evening! Pasquale and his team are the most friendly, most accommodating hosts you could wish for! The food is lovely, the ambience is fantastic and the staff bend over backwards to ensure that the overall experience is perfect. Where else could you go to have a Gypsy Kings serenade from the chef & high kicks & dancing with the host??? Such a special evening - well done Pasquale & your team! SUPERB!!! we went in on a friday night and it was busy, great buzz about the place and from the moment we walked in we felt very welcome, i might be wrong here but it seems like a family run restaurant given the way the staff seem to bounce off each other. everyone is full of charm from the tall gentleman on the door and the lads in the kitchen cracking jokes between one another, to the main waiter who is a born entertainer, singing and dancing along to the background music, the menu choice is excellent and while we didnt venture for anything out of the ordinary the food was lovely, i opted for the garlic pizza bread and my partner had the minestrone soup, the dough was light and fluffy for the my pizza bread and the minestrone was surprizingly light, something that was a pleasant surprise from the all too often tinned chopped tomato versions that you find in so many other italian restaurants. for mains we had the sea bass and the spagetti mare which were both excelent. nearing the end of our meal since it was quietening down the waiters got the karaoke out for the table next to us who appeared to be in for a special occasion and we ended up staying for another round to watch it unfold, karaoke is karaoke but watching the staff get involved as well made it a lot more entertaining to watch . all in all a lovely restaurant with excellent staff and great food, to be honest if i could give a ten for atmosphere i would. these guys genuinley love what they do and that shines through. well done and keep up the great work. thanks. This place is a must,

Went there for a meal last night 10.03.2013 and it was superb,

The manager was very helpful and always had a smile on his face.

The service was great and even thou we the last two people by the end of the night we were not rushed out the door when we had finished our meal.

All in an excellent night with lovely food and great service,

We will be paying them a visit shortly for our next course Dont be put off by the cheap fix exterior signs, this place is not a patch on its previous owner.

We went in on a whim and have to say were pleasantly surprised, the owner/manager greeted and showed us to our table. We had the house red at £13 was a great wine for money. Followed by some cheesey garlic bread to start
I asked to have a starter dish made up to a main (no problems)- which when it arrived was fantastic, My wife had her own creation pizza which was not a problem to make. It to was lovely thicker base than most but very light and she and I enjoyed that too. 
At £35 for dinner and wine was excellent - quality of the food was hard to knock and the owner is a true star - We will be back Absolutely fantastic.I feel this sums up our expierence of La Barca last night.From the moment we walked through the door we were made to feel welcome.The staff were extremely friendly and attentive.Food was lovely and great portions.Throw in the view of the bridges, it made for a wonderful evening.Will definitely be back. What a lovely dinner we experienced last night, amazing food, amazing location with a great price tag too. The portion sizes were fantastic, very generous which appealed to us. We will definitely be back for another visit soon. I would advise booking in advance as I can sense this little gem of a place wont be long in taking off.

They offer gluten free and also advises on the food on offer.

The only thing is I feel they need to get the menu online and maybe a few more waiters to soften the atmosphere as it felt rushed with the restuarant being so busy for the owner and two young waiters to manage.dont get confused with bella vista.
Drove past tryed the food last week it was amazing.
have booked again tomorrow./.i eat out italian once a week and was sceptical after a bad experience with bella vistas food.
The management( owner) attends to everyone with a personal one to one service.He managed to juggle all the 8 tables serving everyone drinks food and speaking to all his customers with out any hassles .Most retaurants need 3 or 4 waiters. Music relaxing service relaxing chef amazing.I wish all the staff and management all the best.Went into opposition eitherside both look wow £££££££££££££££££££ spent but was not impressed by sevice so recommend you try here.
owner says he is going to invest , yes its not marble floors etc but i want good food and somebody to look after my wife and i. I went to this stunning restaurant on a Saturday afternoon with my husband and children who are both under 4. We were made to feel very welcome with the children. Our food was fantastic and they cater for every taste. We couldn't fault the service and the waiter was very friendly but not intrusive so you could enjoy your meal. The views are stunning and it makes you feel like you are on a boat with the view of the sea. We will defiantly be going back and I will be recommending this restaurant to all my friends and family I was with my friends when we found this restaurant completely by chance, and it turned out that we were in for a very pleasant surprise. The waiters were friendly and attentive, and the view on the forth bridge was stunning. Most importantly, the food was absolutely delicious and had an authentic Italian taste to it. The portions were good sized, especially considering the reasonable prices. Overall, I would strongly recommend this restaurant to anyone, as I'm definitely going to go back myself.We visited La Lanterna last weekend on a short visit to Edinburgh. It was recommended on Tripadvisor and we were advised to book. It was a Saturday night so we got an early sitting for 6.00. The place was so busy but yet had a great relaxed atmosphere. The food was excellent throughout. It was most definitely so fresh and cooked to order and although we left nice and full, we weren't too stuffed. Service was also excellent with really genuine, friendly staff. If you're looking for authentic Italian food that is of high quality with great service levels, then I'd highly recommend the restaurant. We were fortunate to find a few very good restaurants on our short visit but will definitely be returning here the next time we're in town. So glad I had a look at trip advisor before deciding to eat here. My wife and I were in Edinburgh for a long weekend away and were looking to eat Italian. As one of the top rated restaurants in Edinburgh we thought we would give it a go and it was fantastic. Really traditional, family run Italian. Minestrone and bruschetta starters were delicious. Wife went for what I thought was 'bog standard' spag bol but it was really tasty...in fact the best she had ever had! I went for gnocchi as a lot of supposed Italian places don't seem to sell it and I am glad I did! A tiramisu (home made) and a latte later we headed back to the hotel after what we think was the best Italian we have had. Beats Jamie's place any day and for just over 40 (we had a couple of soft drinks) it was good value too!! Give it a go if you are nearby!!! Really nice food and a good family run restaurant with a very welcoming and friendly service. So glad we came across this restaurant, and will definately visit again when in Edinburgh. Popped in on our honeymoon break and were impressed by the friendly service, very reasonable prices and lovely food. the Bolognese was super and my wife's seafood risotto was lush Thank you Trip Advisor for pointing me to this lovely little Italian hidden away just off Princes Street/George Street! Had a wonderful bowl of spaghetti with a glass of wine for lunch. Was so cheap for its location. Tasted wonderful and was just the right amount for the middle of the day. Glad to have found this place. And they taught me how to eat spaghetti properly! Popped in here for tea last night, had looked at various places for tips on tripadvisor before going, we were made very welcome, staff courteous, friendly & very attentive. 
Shared a starter, then we each had a different Pasta dish (was on average £10) - initally looked like a reserved helping but was more than suffice, infact the food was very tasty & hit just the right spot.
Would have no hesitation in recommending, only thing that was odd - no pizza on the menu :0 Visited La Lanterna after reading the reviews on trip advisor and were not disappointed, it was a delicious Italian meal. The seafood linguine, which arrived wrapped in foil was better than we had in Italy (just got back from Italy). The seafood was fresh and sweet and the rest of the meal was also excellent with fresh ingredients nicely presented. Service was really friendly and helpful and next time we are in Edinburgh we will certainly visit again. Highly recommend. Stumbled upon this using the Tripadvisor app when I was in Edinburgh in February. Typical Italian charm, lovely hosts and wonderful food. Though we didn't have a booking there was lots of space. Had the creamy garlic and mushroom antipasti tagliatelle, was superb. Bf had the mussels with spaghetti, the best he's had he said. Bill was reasonable. If you wish to sample lovely Italian cuisine in Edinburgh, this is where to go! I searched out this on line before we went to Edinburgh. It is a really comfortable place, lots of tables, good music, good decor. The menu has specialities and lots of choices for a 3 course meal. Staff are a dream, helpful, funny,a joy but not intrusive. Coats taken when you go in and nothing is too much trouble. Food is excellent. Prepared on the spot and is tasty, delicious and authentic to what you can get in Italy. Good selection of wines. Try their after dinner liquor specials. This is not a big glam place but a smaller intimate size family restaurant with good food which is what I wanted. After a days walking around Edinburgh this was the best Italian restaurant we went to there. You will not be disappointed here Found this great restaurant after looking at other reviews, glad we went here. The three of us went here for an evening meal, and the place was packed. You could tell it was popular and the staff seemed to have the seating arrangements for reserved and non-reserved customers under control. Customers just kept coming! Nice touch with the host taking our coats, made us feel very welcomed. The menu was varied and had lots of choice, which is probably why there were families here...lots of variety. We ordered spaghetti bolignase a lasagne and a tomato based pasta dish. We all commented on how homemade and rustic it tasted, quite authentic family recipes no doubt. The portions, I would say, were not big but average size, but very manageable and I was full afterwards! The place and hosts had an informal feel, and nothing was rushed, we weren't pestered either. Without researching the place, you can tell it is family owned/run. Would definitely recommend this place, possibly a bit busy for a quiet romantic meal, but I suppose it depends when you go and what you like. 5 of us dined here the other night. There were other Italian restaurants in Hanover St but this was the busiest so we thought it might be good - and it was. Three of us had different veal dishes, one had pasta and one chicken and all were great. They have been in business for 30years and it felt like a proper Italian family restaurant, complete with Mama, who came to check if everything was ok. Excellent service, good value and really, really good food. Will make an excuse to get back to Edinburgh so that I can go again. I found this restaurant after a search on tripadvisor and was very impressed by all the reviews about the food and service, and I was not disappointed. From the genuine, warm welcome and superb service to the great atmosphere and delicious food, this place definitely lives up to its reputation and I would 110% recommend a visit. My highlight - the ma-jassive wedge of pavlova I had for dessert (I wasn't going to have dessert but every time I saw one coming out of the kitchen I just couldn't resist. Yum) The four of us enjoyed a fantasitic meal at this cosy Italian Restaurant The owners and staff are great and it was a fun night. They really do want you to enjoy your evening. All the reviews on trip advisor were positive and spot on. Every course was a delight and served with a really nice and affordable house red. We are already planning to come back. My boyfriend and I ate here the other night using a voucher deal- 2 pizza or pasta mains for £9.99. We were fully expecting the portions to be on the small side due to the offer. We were wrong!
The restaurant itself is very modern and really inviting. Menu is extensive but not too much that you would worry about the quality. 
We shared the bread selection starter but kind wish we didn't as it was so yummy we were getting full. 
Enter the main course.... OMG! The size of the calzone was incredible. It must have been a good 15 inches long by about 5 inches high! I took one look at it and thought there was no way my boyfriend will help me finish my carbonara. 
Both dishes were delicious and could not fault it. The calzone got finished, the carbonara did not (unfortunately).
Would eat here again but next time i might ask for a kids portion.
Excellent Service and value. Although I've been 3 or 4 times for evenings out, I tend to use this restaurant before the rugby internationals. It's always buzzing and on Saturday 9th for the Wales game, it was no exception. Although extremely busy the food and service were top class. If you like Italian food, I don't think you can find much better in Edinburgh.
It was the first time my companion had been there and he absolutely loved it. I highly recommend it and will be visiting again soon. Don't be put off by the restricted pavement access to the restaurant because of the ongoing tram fiasco in Edinburgh. Try their calzone; excellent and the size of a deer's head with antlers! We are regular visitors to Cafe Domenico and we absolutely love the place. The staff are brilliant - always friendly, helpful and cheerful. Tony always brightens up our visits. The food is the best i have come across anywhere in the UK. The pasta is out of this world and the specials have such variety and are coooked to perfection. The staff are always willing to modify any dish to suit your needs with no fuss and no extra cost. Even the background music is great! Everyone should visit this place! Went in on spec quite early on a Saturday evening, and managed to get a table for 2 at a window with a view of a quiet street. Noticed that the place started to fill up quickly and suggest booking at the weekends, its not a big place and won't be able to accommodate that many visitors at short notice. Tables are quite close together so might not be ideal for an intimate date, but I'm sure they'll accommodate if you asked? Food was superb, a daily specials menu and standard choices. Special had a fish stew which was huge and delicious, with plenty real bread, other main (on standard menu) was a gorgeous beef stew that was so full of flavor - more bread was offered so everything could be mopped up and enjoyed. House wine was a reasonable, sensible price by the glass or bottle and suited the food perfectly. All this for about £20 per head, and with perfect polite and genuine service this is a definite return and have recommended to many people already. We go here a lot, as it is a really chilled-out relaxed place with great food and friendly, charismatic staff. Portions are generous, simple and really well prepared. It's tucked away on Sandport St but is absolutely worth a visit. We've been there many times, and never been disappointed. Been meaning to visit for ages and found ourselves in Leith and finally went or it....wish we had years ago. Small venue with small amount of covers. Had booked for 7pm and was quiet on arrival but soon filled up and good atmosphere. The service was exceptional, very friendly and the two waiters running front of house made us feel right at home with good advice when advice sought. Dinner menu fairly limited, that said, the choices of pasta dishes and bruschettas a little different making choice difficult as all sounded good. Supplemented by great choice of blackboard night specials again making decisions very difficult. Starters of sardines and two varieties of bruschetta a great intro. We all opted for different mains of pasta with scallops/chorizo, spicy sausage/pepper, smoked haddock/peas......we all tried each others and quite frankly all hit the mark totally. All supplemented with a good house red and a couple of good desserts. All well priced for quality delivered and great portion sizes. Even though don't live in this area will gladly work my way back here when seeking a good authentic Italian feast at good price, with great service and value for money. Great memories, great choice, highly recommend against central Edinburgh tourist traps.Went to domenicos for the first time the other week. On a Monday and Tuesday they do pasta and wine for £7.50. We had two glasses of wine each and a garlic bread to share and it cost only just over £23. The service was fantastic as was the food. I can't wait to return. I booked a table for 8 - quite a lot for a tiny restaurant. The earlier diners were slow in leaving, but the Domenico's staff were very helpful, and when we were seated there was no delay in serving us. A large and complicated order was managed with no fuss.
The bill was a very pleasant surprise - much less than it would be in many other restaurants.
Everybody remarked that they enjoyed the food.
It was so nice that I went back for a coffee a few days later.
I certainly hope to eat here again. Went here for dinner on a Friday evening with my boyfriend and we got a great little seat with great service and lovely pasta. The price is cheap-average for the Shore area but this is by far the nicest pasta place I've been to in Edinburgh. Lovely little place would definitely recommend it to others. The meals are simple with a good array of dishes and lovely special dishes if you fancy a change. Hear it is also great for lunch. This is my favourite restaurant in Edinburgh! I have been here a few times and it never disappoints - the service is always brilliant, the staff are so friendly and accommodating and the food is authentic and delicious. The menu is varied and the specials are always tempting. And they do a brilliant sandwich at lunchtime as well! Cannot speak highly enough of this place. I live for fresh, tasty, high-quality food and love getting gourmet rolls from Domenico's.

They have a range of rolls, different pestos, every marinated vegetable imaginable (olives, sundried tomatoes, mushrooms, courgettes, peppers), rocket, fresh salad, amazing cheeses, smoked salmon and meats. I cannot think of another lunch place that comes close. Seriously, who else has truffle pesto??? Amazing. Pure quality.

The only area for improvement that I can think of is their bread. It's fine but it could be better. I'd love to see them offer some fresh sourdough.

All in all, I love this place. So good and very well priced too. Took my girlfriend out for a meal and we were happy overall with the experience.

The food is good however I feel that there was little choice overall. And the mains don't come with much. I ordered the sirloin steak that was £16 and it only came with a bed of rocket and Parmesan. 

Girlfriend had pasta that she really enjoyed and the serving was plentiful. 

For the price I would of expected more overall but I enjoyed the night and the service was excellent and interior comfortable. I'm rarely given to writing reviews unless I consider food and service to be exceptional...and Vittoria was exceptional. We booked late on a weekend and knowing something of the industry I was grateful for a hot meal late in the evening. What we were served would not be out of place in Italy. The food was cooked to perfection, the waiting staff were knowledgeable and courteous and the general ambience was a pleasure. As an aside I sometimes measure a restaurants authenticity by their range of food and drink and they had my favourite Italian licquer 'Strega'. All in all highly recommended. Bravo Vittoria! Popped in for lunch today as we were in town and needed somewhere to eat. Service was first class and the pasta, the special of the day was probably the best pasta dish I've ever had and the cheesy garlic bread was superb. A good pick!!!! I went to have breakfast to Asti Restaurant 2 days ago, and I found exactly what I expected. I went there, recommended by a friend that used to live nearby, and he told me that both the quality and the service were great. That's my same impression. Just come inside and you will find nice and smiley waitresses, fully serviceable. Great atmosphere inside, italian music sounding around, free Wi-fi access, and comfortable space where to sit and enjoy the meal. About the quality, just what I said before, it was delicious. I asked for a full english breakfast, accompanied by a capuccino, that really made my day. Broughton Street is one of those great little social hub streets in Edinburgh with literally dozens of cafes, bars and coffee shops. Over the years the plot that Asti occupies has taken a number of guises and served many different types of cuisine - as far as I can recall all pretty good. 

But I'm not here to talk about them. I'm here to talk about Asti and my almost unfathomably dismal experience here this March morning. 

Asti opens at 8am, not unreasonably because there is enormous passing trade heading onwards towards a day of hard work. I'm fortunate to be self employed and working from home, so often I don't need to be somewhere at a set time. Asti therefore should be perfect for breakfast meetings. A well cooked warming start to the day over a productive discussion. Wrong. 

See, here's the rub. Although Asti opens at 8am, their chef doesn't come in until 9am. And even then he doesn't so much as crack an eggshell until quarter past. Confused. Yes me too. There's a breakfast menu outside. A breakfast menu inside. Two lovely smiley waitresses taking orders, but only if you want a croissant or a fritatta or a cake or ( as I was offered) chocolate and toffee
shortbread. 

Really? Yes really. 

Forget the bacon.
Forget the sausages
Forget the smoked salmon.
Forget the eggs benedict 
Forget the porridge. 
Have a cake. 

......Because the chef can't be bothered coming in until after most people have already had breakfast. 

What a deplorable way to run a restaurant. Despite the service, the friendly welcome, the plush interior, this is the restaurant that actually forgot one thing. IT'S A RESTAURANT! .Very disappointed to learn of an unhappy breakfast customer. Asti has been in Broughton Street for just over a year now, and, during this period,we, as a small team have worked hard to serve what we think the public want within our comfortable surroundings. Although the cuisine is essentially Italian, we open all day, serving breakfast, lunch, dinner and coffees. Having tested the market carefully over the last year, there seems to be no/very little demand for breakfast before 9am except during festival period. This probably explains why most of our competitors around this area open much later. We have, nonetheless, continued to open at 8am weekdays offering freshly ground coffee, croissants, pastries and sourdough toasts to sit in/to go for the early birds. The full kitchen opens at 9am on weekdays and 9.30 weekends. Till now, during these times, we have managed to establish a very regular breakfast clientele who sample a variety of artisan breads and our "own sourced" coffee bean, freshly ground to order. I can only apologize for your disappointment and hope that you may revisit and sample our menu at some other time.
We as a "Restaurant' never forget that we are a restaurant. We aim to do our best in serving quality food within the opening times and in making sure all our customers leave happy. this is a nice place with a traditional menu - I had lobster ravioli and as my GP has advised me to avoid dairy I quizzed them quite a bit about whether the sauce had dairy in it - they assured me it did not and produced a lovely sauce creamy in colour and creamy to taste yet no dairy - just "tomato and basil" according to the manager - how fabulous - i asked them how they got it like that without cream but they weren't letting on !! - yum!? Unusually - they made a strong recommendation for wine without asking what we were going to eat and asked us at least 4 times if we wanted coffee - on the up side the limoncello was a good one! Great little Italian place, good specials - the lobster Ravioli was lovely. Always take a good look at the specials list. Looks small from the outside but much bigger upon entering. Good value, nice selection of food and wine and a helpful and friendly staff. Looking forward to my next visit. We have visited this delightful Italian restaurant 4 times in the last month (twice each lunch and dinner) and can not fault anything. The food is delicious, Fiona and the rest of the staff very attentive and friendly, nothing is too much trouble even down to preparing special items not on the menu....love this place.We had booked for a Saturday night with 5 of us aged from 12 to well a bit older. Loved the fact that we could request and receive something not listed on the main menu. Quality and freshness of the food was very good. Friendliness and attentiveness of the staff was excellent. Only one toilet for men and one for women not ideal, but the quality of the food and the fantastic staff managed to make it a very minor issue. Would recommend this for quality, value and friendliness Trusting reviews, my Wife and I plus another couple tipped up on a Saturday evening. Although fully booked at the time, we were given a thirty minute indication of time for a free table which we booked.
On returning we were given a table and from there on we were well looked after by the staff who were very pleasant.
The food was excellent and well presented and all four of us were in agreement that it was the equal of any Italian restaurant we've eaten in. The only quibble I'd have is that there was too little pasta - I could easily have eaten twice what was in the plate (and I'm not the biggest of eaters!) otherwise I'd have awarded a rating of five.
All in all I'd recommend a visit. Went there last night for friends birthday meal as had a booking at Los Argentinos (steak place around the corner from it) but when we turned up they had overbooked so we were left high and dry despite having booked the table well in advance. Anyway on to Sambucca...We had two courses, 2 bottles of wine and liquer coffee. Before starters we had the most delicious bread with olive oil and balsamic. 3 of us had half portions of pasta as a starter and 4th had garlic mushrooms. All dishes were ample and delicious. As we had all had out hearts set on a steak so we opted for steaks here done in mustard, brandy and cream - absolutely delicious. We had liquer coffees and then the owner brought us complimentary zambuccas which was appreciated.

Service was excellent and will certainly return. A night that could have turned out to be a disaster was saved by Sambucca, The meal was for a special birthday.
For the following confession, I can only throw myself on your mercy. For 37 whole minutes I had stood outside Jamie's Italian, gurning insanely at diners on the other side of the window in a futile bid to force them out, and the queue had moved all of two inches.

Why this first in Jamie Oliver's planned chain won't take reservations for parties of fewer than eight I'm still not sure, although a young woman hinted at some kind of anti-elitist philosophy when I rang in the naive hope of booking.

Now, I'm all for anti-elitism, yet this was already my most dismal Oxford moment since late 1981 when, under extreme pressure, I admitted to the classics dons of Trinity that my 1,500-word entrance exam essay on Euripides' Alcestis had been based entirely on the blurb on the back of the Penguin Classic. "So you haven't actually, erm, read the play?" one of them inquired. Murmuring whatever the 1981 version of "I'll get me coat" might have been, I was gone.

The interview of 27 years later, when a waitress walked the line taking names and numbers, was barely less humiliating. Call it Winnerial Disease, if you must, but faced with another hour or more before getting a seat, I gingerly blew my own cover and was led inside to wait at the bar, where my friends found me staring catatonically at a TV screen showing chefs making fresh pasta. Another 20 minutes passed before we went down to the basement, much as Hercules descended into Hades to rescue Alcestis. (As if those blurbs don't give you all you need. What were those Trinity elitists thinking of?)

All in all, then, the experience wasn't fully authentic. But then neither is this restaurant, which stands beside a thoroughfare known locally as "vomit alley" and is rather more town than gown. Jamie Oliver has a real love for Italian cuisine, as do all graduates of the River Cafe, but there is something wilfully unItalian about the ethos of serving hordes (160 covers) as quickly as possible, albeit with enthusiastic charm, to keep that queue trickling along.

"Well, it's not pretentious, is it?" said one of us, squinting through the gloom to take in the open-plan kitchen half-hidden behind a brick wall, and the semi-psychedelic splashes of colour arrayed elsewhere. "You cannot accuse it of that."

The place buzzes engagingly with the sound of people relishing fairly priced food, and the bustle fits in nicely with a cheap'n'cheerful'n'only slightly self-reverential menu ("My favourite humble green salad", etc) from which we ordered vastly with few disappointments.

Particularly splendid was a bruschetta with crispy pancetta, even if it took a while to arrive because, as our enchanting young waiter reported, "it comes from a different station than the other breads" (penis envy, we guessed, occasioned by the grissini). Also great were three pasta dishes, penne arrabiata zinging with hot chillies, "lovely and sweet" linguine with prawns, and a richly satisfying pappardelle with sausage. One of us, an Italian herself, wasn't wild about her pumpkin and ricotta ravioli with "beautiful rosemary sauce" (watch yourself, Jamie boy, we'll be the judge of that), which she found oversalted and not al dente enough. But a shared board of antipasti included such delights as San Daniele ham and top-quality pecorino.

So lavish are the portions that we could contentedly have stopped there and then; and, on fiscal and culinary grounds sticking to such outstanding homemade pasta may be the wisest way to eat here. But we ploughed on all the same, and the main courses weren't half-bad, either.

My chargrilled "Catherine Wheel" sausage, with deliciously sloppy Parmesan and mushroom polenta, spoke spicily of a happy and fulfilled pig, and the one complaint about a salad of pecorino, pear and prosciutto was that, like the alliteration, there was too much of it. Three juicy lamb chops were perfectly pink, and half a chicken served with a tomato and chilli salsa was "unusually good", according to one whose sole qualification to comment on food derives from a stint as the Honey Monster's sidekick. Chips, on the other hand, were spongy and chickpeas didn't need the confusion of balsamic vinegar.

The best came last by way of a sublime trio of ice creams made to a recipe of Gennaro Contaldo, Jamie's old mentor, who was heavily involved in opening this first of a chain cunningly targeted at such other urban foodie deserts as Bath and Cambridge. Whenever a big-name chef sets out along Gary Rhodes Avenue, the chasm between his histrionic passion for bespoke cooking and the hard realities of off-the-peg mass catering induces unease. But anti-elitist affordability can work brilliantly, as proved by the Carluccio chain that presumably inspired this budding one, and if Jamie can replicate this early Oxford form, he will soon be driving a prize herd of recession-proof cash cows across the land.

One closing word of caution, though. Take a book (have you read the Alcestis? I'm told it's terribly good), a flask of tea and preferably a tent on the safe assumption that it will be worth the wait.JUST for a change we decided to go for a taste of little Italy just down the road in Penistone.

We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.

Thursday night and trade was brisk.

It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming.

We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.

We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks – a glass of white wine and a beer for me.

We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.

Decisions, decisions ...

For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio – mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.

For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo – grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.

Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.

Tina came to take our orders.

As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening’s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.

Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?

Not I.
HOLLAND, MI — I have always loved Italian food, but I didn’t really come to truly appreciate it until I met my wife’s paternal grandmother. Grandpa Lou and grandma Celia Franconi hail from Abruzzo, Italy. Their new life in America commenced on Ellis Island, like many Italian immigrants before them.

Grandma Celia was naturally gifted as a cook. She labored all day to create her memorable sauces and fresh baked breads. She seasoned her dishes instinctively, never the one to shy away from garlic and red chili peppers. Her sweet peppers in olive oil and pasta e fagioli were unmatched — at least in the eyes of her family. Her bread rolling board, which she packed in the trunk of her car, was as massive as the Cadillac she drove.

So with memories of a crowded kitchen table overflowing with platters of green beans, leg of lamb, homemade pasta and bottomless servings of Ernest & Julio (that grandpa Lou stored underneath the sink), Elena and I ventured to Pereddies restaurant in Holland to reminisce about the flavors that reminded us so much of grandma Celia’s cooking.

It had been more than 16 years since I had dined at Pereddies.

Character is something Pereddies doesn’t lack. One must pass the small Scusi bar and the cozy deli filled with tasty products before reaching the back of the space where the dining room is located. The interior is kitschy – local art meets hanging white lights, vines and jugs of basket wines adorning the lattice wall entry. I must admit that I found the room charming in its own peculiar way.

Elena and I sat at a window table overlooking the sleepy Washington Square. We ordered martinis, a Grey Goose with stuffed olives for Elena and a Ketel One with one plain olive for me. Jordan, the lone server in the room, opted to skip the serving tray and looked like he was on the balance beam when he delivered our martinis with his bare hands.

I have this fixation with charcuterie and antipasto boards in restaurants because the dish will always win “most photogenic” in my obsession of taking photos of what I eat. Pereddies’ Antipasto ($10) of sliced meats, cheese, olives, peppers, seafood dip and crackers came tightly packed in a small square plate. Because of the wonderful selections at the deli, I was expecting the Antipasto plate to be more tantalizing than a very basic selection of provolone, Gouda and pepperoni. The fish dip and sweet peppers, however, were very good.

Jordan sold me on the evening’s special of Prosciutto wrapped Asparagus ($12), which came with two soft poached eggs. The dish came beautifully presented with flavors and texture that complimented each other well. Despite the overcooked asparagus (pale green and no crunch), Elena and I found the dish to be very tasty and worth a permanent place on the menu.

I enjoyed the Caesar salad and the generous portion of anchovies that came with my entrée. Just like the antipasto, I wished the kitchen would have used a larger plate because a bread and butter plate was simply too small for the portion.

I have always said that a restaurant’s Bolognese or ragu defines the place. Its ingredients are the soul of an Italian kitchen. It is the simplest of Italian dishes to make, however, it is the most overlooked by chefs more focused on serving signature dishes. Cooking the ragu requires patience to allow the character of the onions, celery, carrots to beautifully marinate with the beef and tomato sauce.

We ordered a half portion to save room for our entrées. Jordan delivered the bowl of Beef Bolognese ($16/$8 half order), and from the looks of it, Elena and I knew that it wasn’t going to be anything special. In fact, it was more of a rigatoni with a plain tomato sauce and nowhere near a Bolognese we expected. The rigatoni was limp, the beef looked like broken up meatball pieces in the house tomato sauce.

Elena’s Shrimp and Calamari ($19) entrée, unfortunately, was also a disappointment. We were hoping to see an elegant bowl of seafood that stood out in the sauce, the piece de resistance, but instead, it turned out to be a bowl of under-seasoned house marinara with shrimp and calamari thrown in.

Jordan highly recommended the Pork Shank ($20) for my entree. He described it as “two pork shanks that have been simmered for a long time in balsamic vinegar.” Unlike the previous dishes, the pork shank looked like there was more love and attention paid to creating the hearty dish. The pork shanks were glistening underneath a mirage of onions with the accompanying vegetable medley and perfectly roasted stuffed potato.

As I dug into my pork shanks with visions of culinary euphoria, what looked like a winning dish started to unravel with every bite. The shanks were seasoned just right, however, the acidity of the vinegar was prevalent on the palette and if the kitchen had allowed it to simmer in the balsamic a little bit longer than it had, it would have been perfect. While it was cooked, the meat was tough around the edges. The vegetables, I hate to say it, were bland and overcooked.

For 20 years, Pereddies has been the cornerstone at Washington Square. I can imagine the loyal following it has built during the course of two decades of serving home cooked Italian food in Holland. Even the best restaurants have their bad days, and unfortunately for Pereddies, our visit was one of them.

We passed on desserts and drove back to Grand Rapids still longing for some of grandma Celia’s cooking.Bridgnorth isn’t known for its high street brands or innovative cuisine – bar a few exceptions – its not quite Ludlow….However, in the past twelve months there have been a couple of creations which are good enough to become regional success stories, and possibly even nationals. Until now, we had Casa Ruiz, the authentic Spanish tapas, serving the tasty dishes how they should be, and following the Spanish theme right through to 100% Spanish wine menu. Now they have opened a second in Shrewsbury, with good feedback to date.

We may have another seed that has been planted on the high street, at the other end, right below the famous arch –“Peepo” which I understand can mean many things, but in this case is an Authentic Italian Pizzeria, serving simple dishes, created with a little flair, and a good handful of locally sourced ingredients. Locally sourced? Italian? Well, the meats are all from Italy, but expertly sourced by Bridgnorth Deli, the fresh dough uses ‘proper’ Italian “00” flour, (low in gluten, and light to eat) milled and prepped into pizza dough, at a Bridgnorth based Whitneys bakery – and other meats included in pizzas like the ‘Mucho Meat’ pizza, are again from local butchers….not the ‘local’ that would win Rosettes, but supporting local suppliers, gets my vote.

So what about the food? I’ll come to that in a minute – As not only is it easy to mess up good locally sourced speciality ingredients, but it is also easy to mess up the all-important environment that you eat it in – well, they have got that spot on too – during the day the minimalist decor is fresh and welcoming, as are the friendly young team, the tables are uncluttered, with a pot of fresh herbs, place mats – which double up as menus – and salt & pepper mill. A well stocked bar – and open plan gleaming new kitchen – all offer themselves as re-assuring signals and an air of professionalism.

We dined at night – a Thursday 8.30pm – second week of opening, I thought quiet, but though I was right, I was not fully right – I was informed they had already served 55 covers before 8pm “We appear to be very popular with young families” enthuses the proprietor Phil “We seem to have an instant Italian family appeal, and couples come out before they go into town or the cinema” added Phil.

So, what are they all so excited about? We started with the cream of cauliflower soup, and garlic pizza bread, and chose a bottle of Bardolino house. The wine quickly arrived, professionally presented and served, and was very pleasant, then the starters soon after. By the time they did, the restaurant already had another 4 tables come in, two of which were clearly repeat visits. The soup was a welcomed start with it being so cold out, a good depth of flavour, as well as being refreshing – a good accompaniment to the highly ‘dunkable’ garlic pizza – and yes, they had got the base spot on.

While we waited for our mains, we noted groups of people disappearing upstairs with drinks, and others leaving, laughing and seemingly full of high ‘spirits’ – upon asking, the waitress explained they have a private pre-and post dinner lounge upstairs which is already proving popular with youngsters (thirty somethings it seemed to me, phew!). We both had chosen pizza’s – after all when in a Bridgnorth Pizzeria – both twelve inches, and as rustic as any trattoria, none of your Pizza Hut perfectly formed circles with a crust you have to try and see over – these were thin, crisp, light and rustic….mine even had a corner – I chose the Prosciutto – brimming with ham, fresh rocket and shavings of slowly melting parmesan – as a bit of a novelty I opted for their offer of ‘middle out, salad in’ – great idea – almost health food! My guest pushed the ‘boat’ out and chose the Chilli prawn and Crab – again, generous on the ingredients, and the prawns remained tender, and the crab retained its light flavour. By now we were well into the swing of things, and ‘tried’ a second bottle, this time a ‘nice Chianti – again, unoffensive, and a little more full bodied.

By now, the restaurant resembled a Saturday night, with groups, couples, and families with teenagers – nice to see – they were really turning out those pizzas – I asked about the supply –“We make enough fresh doughs for each sitting” commented Phil “I must admit though, we have been packed out today, and luckily made an extra batch, otherwise we would be running low” – Not good in a pizzeria, I commented – but as they say when things are fresh, ‘when they are gone, they are gone!’ There is a good range of pastas on the menu, and salads, so I am sure no-one would starve.

On to the desserts – not that we needed any – but the Affogato sounded intriguing, and not too filling ‘A single espresso, with a scoop of vanilla gelato – I chose just the gelato selection – Last time I was in Venice I ate 13 flavours in one day, so i know my gelato from my gloopy over processed UK ice cream! The Chocolate truffle pizza dessert also sounded intriguing, but didn’t want to over stretch the pizza dough rations! The desserts were good, like any true Italian, and yep, I could work my way through a few scoops of the gelato.

After the meal, we couldn’t resist a trip upstairs, and grabbed a couple of mean cocktails from Phil – whom I later discovered is an award winning “mixologist” in both London & Sydney – and I can see why. My ‘Peeps’ Campari went down a treat – whilst relaxing on a sofa in the rather stylish ‘Peepo lounge’ overlooking the high street.

With excellent service, authentic Italian food, award winning cocktails, this balanced simple menu, I do wonder how many other high streets I will be ‘Peepo-ing’ over in the coming years!

Peepo Restaurant Sample Menu For more information on Peepo Bridgnorth: 01746 766220
Monday, July 02, 2012
Profile image for LucyLyon

LucyLyon
Follow

IT is hard to believe now but not so long ago finding a good restaurant on Princes Avenue was a tough job.

When I arrived on the shores of Hull 12 years ago there was some grim Mexican, a lot of takeaways and, of course, Pier Luigi.

    ​Lucca the interior

    Lucca: The interior is unrecognisable from the Pier Luigi days.

    •
    •
    •
    •
    •
    •

Like many long-lasting eateries, Pier Luigi’s fortunes wavered over the years – personally I ate both well and extremely poorly there.

By the time it closed, however, there can be no doubt it had been overtaken by the newer, slicker restaurants that had opened on a street that had, at first surprisingly, become one of the night-time destinations of the city.
Main image for B & B Digital Limited
We will install 3 aerial points for the price of 2, all this for...

B & B Digital Limited
View details

Print voucher



Lucca, the new Italian that has opened in its place, therefore has both a heritage to live up to - and a venue with a mixed reputation to overcome.

The revamp has made the place almost unrecognisable. Where once was wood and hand-painted murals is now slick glass and fancy design. It has to be said it is a vast improvement.

Upstairs is a champagne bar and function room, but after a quick visit to the cocktail bar – which has been cleverly delineated from the restaurant by a thick glass door – we head to the restaurant.

The menu is large enough but not overwhelming, with plenty to choose from in the pasta, pizza and risotto sections.

Dishes include fresh crabmeat tortellini, slightly more innovative than many Italian restaurants, but it is to the other mains we head, eager to test the kitchen’s finesse.

I opt for the gamberonni picante (£7.45) – or spicy prawns – which come with a cucumber, red onion and sweet pepper salad for a starter, while my dining partner chooses the seared scallops with Parma ham, asparagus and madeira sauce (£8.25).

We are both impressed with our choices – the Madeira sauce is beautifully reduced, while the prawns are tasty but light – and look forward to the main attraction.

After much deliberation, I choose the monkfish, which comes wrapped in Parma ham and is served with wilted spinach with potato and anchovy cream (£16.95). I also order a side salad and although there is far too much food to finish, I relish every mouthful.

My indecisive dining partner asks for guidance from the waiter, who recommends the herb-crusted rack of lamb (£17.45), which comes with baby new potatoes, confit shallots, glazed carrots, roasted red onion and redcurrant jelly sauce.

It is polished off with much lip-smacking pleasure.

A dessert each – pear tart for me, cheesecake for my partner – and a couple of coffees finish off a meal that has been accompanied by great service.

Unwilling to end the night, we head once more into the bar for yet more cocktails as, it would appear, do a number of other tables.

The bill when it comes is a pleasant surprise at just under £110.

Pleasantly full, and suitable refreshed from our cocktails, we head off into the night – memories of Pier Luigi all but erased.

Lucca Bar and Kitchen, 84 Princes Avenue, Hull. Call: 01482 470088.

Read more: http://www.thisishullandeastriding.co.uk/Restaurant-review-Lucca-Princes-Avenue-Hull/story-16475594-detail/story.html#ixzz2Oa9T3fn4
Follow us: @thisishull on Twitter | thisishull on Facebook
London is in love with Italian restaurants again. Although Italian always tops polls of favourite eating-out choices, there’s been a surge of of fresh interest, fuelled by funky youngsters such as Zucca, Trullo and Polpo, and kick-started by the lovely Bocca di Lupo (with the River Café looking maternally on). Between them, they’ve reinvented the genre, moving it away from stuffy, upmarket jobs or cheap’n’cheerful spag bol trats. And a wonderful thing that is, too.

In what was one of the stuffiest of those stuffy numbers (L’Incontro), brothers Max and Federico Sali have shifted the Italian restaurant along yet another notch. Neither hushed and posh nor frantic and buzzy, it’s a properly grown-up number in the best possible way.

It looks sleek and expensive: brick tiles, dark and sombre colour scheme, clever, flattering lighting so everyone looks like a bella signorina – even the fortysomething, affluent clientele.

It breathes class, but effortlessly. Federico’s in the kitchen and Max is out front making us all feel like royalty with an attentive charm that fortunately stops just shy of smarm.

The menu is a fashionable one – there are the now-mandatory ‘small eats’ (pioneered by Polpo) and au courant ingredients such as burrata and nduja – here in the same dish. The brothers’ Tuscan background shines through in dishes such as panzanella, a fragrant salad designed to use up stale bread, and trofie from Tuscany’s near neighbour Liguria.

There’s an absolutely luscious version of the Tuscan ‘gnudi’ – like a cross between gnocchi and the filling for ravioli; the name means naked, as in ravioli without their pasta jackets – superlatively light clouds of ricotta and spinach in a punchy, rich tomato sauce.

The region’s inhabitants are known fondly as ‘bean-eaters’, and a dish of pearly, fresh brill in a clam and borlotti broth is one of the best uses of the humble legume I’ve come across in ages. 

The rest of the menu wanders around all over the shop, as is the norm with a London Italian. Paccheri, short, wide-gauged pasta tubes like shrunken cannelloni, are served thrillingly al dente, their nduja (spicy, spreadable Calabrian sausage) saucing proving the perfect foil for a hummock of cold, ultra-creamy burrata cheese on top. ‘Soppressata di testa’ is tactfully translated as ‘pork salami’; perhaps effete diners couldn’t cope with ‘head sausage’. Good, silky, porky meat, funked up with shallots, parsley and capers.

Of the small dishes, we have a punchy crostino of chicken livers. Wisps of courgette are fried in the lightest batter and enthusiastically and addictively salted.

Puddings, not an Italian strength in my book, are assured, the pastry on an almond tart meltingly short, its yoghurt ice cream a sharp, sophisticated contrast.

The wine list, overseen by Max, features some intriguing Italian bottles but isn’t chauvinist enough to preclude others. Traitorously, we choose a supple Albariño.

Like the menu, wines are sensibly priced. This is an uncommon posh Italian in that it will send you out without your wallet needing emergency resuscitation. That’s rare in London, never mind SW1.

The enterprise is backed by the brothers’ ex-boss, Giorgio Locatelli , and his wife Plaxy – Federico was head chef at Locanda Locatelli, and Max wine buyer and sommelier. And who knows superb Italian dishes better than Giorgio? Of all the new Italian babies in town, this is my tip for bonniest.

A meal for two with wine, water and service costs about £90.Tinello, 87 Pimlico Road. Tel: 020 7730 3663. Tube: Sloane SquareThe Vine is the new incarnation of a much-loved Ilkley restaurant, La Sila, an Italian favourite well-supported for many years.

Competition from other Italian eateries springing up around the town may have been a contributory factor in La Sila finally closing its doors about 18 months ago, but the proprietors of the Vine, which opened last November, are already finding fans. Run by two South American brothers – both chefs – and their wives, they are offering a Mediterranean menu and describe the restaurant as family run and family friendly which perfectly captures its appeal.

We first visited the restaurant –above a parade of shops in the town’s main car park – in a large extended family group on a freezing cold early January evening and were greeted with a very warm welcome, friendly, unfussy service and excellent, good value food. Every dish is freshly cooked on the premises using locally sourced ingredients and the menu offers a good range but sensibly does not overstretch itself. Pizzas, pastas and risottos are available as well as other traditional Italian dishes and steak with various sauces and a daily specials board with a Mediterranean twist.

The decor in the Vine is bright and cheery with an authentic Italian restaurant feel. Tables are covered in crisp white linen, the lighting is ambient with fairylights on the beams and tea lights on each table to add to the intimate feel. The kitchen area, as in most traditional Italian pizza restaurants, is open with the chefs’ creative flair clearly visible, breaking down barriers so that the whole business of the preparation, consumption and enjoyment of food is a shared experience conducted in a relaxed manner that adds the inclusive family atmosphere.

Arriving at 8pm on a Friday for our second visit, we found the restaurant pleasantly busy with only one or two spare tables; and the crowds were there through word of mouth only – the friendly waitress who served us said that they had just that week placed their first advertisement in a local newspaper.

One proprietor, recognising us from our previous visit, came to ask how we were enjoying our meal and to say that if there was anything about the restaurant or the food that we thought could be improved to let him know. That kind of personal touch can make all the difference

Starters are very reasonably priced ranging from berlotti bean soup with chorizo, served with focaccia at £4.95 to scallops at £6.50 with others at £5.95, plus a choice of starters on the specials board. We chose a buffalo mozzarella salad with vine tomatoes, sun dried tomatoes and avocado and one of the specials – crabmeat with toasted ciabatta. The crabmeat was blended mouth-wateringly with mayonnaise, capers, cucumber, avocado, lemon juice, tarragon and, according to our waiter, other “secret ingredients”. The mozzarella salad was delicious – the zesty freshness of the cheese, with a perfect firm consistency, combined beautifully with the avocado and two different types of tomato.

For the main course we tried the wild mushroom risotto – one of several vegetarian options – which was a lovely creamy creation with robust earthy flavours complemented by a tomato and onion side salad. The calvados pork fillet was melt-in-your-mouth good with the tender pan fried meat in calvados sauce complemented by flavourful gratin potatoes and the sticky sweetness of caramelised apple. Main courses range from an incredibly good value £6.50 to £7.25 for pizzas and £7.50 for pastas, while meat and fish dishes start at £10.95 for a chicken fillet stuffed with toleggio cheese, rosemary, peppers and oyster mushrooms, to £12.95 for cod wrapped in pancetta and £14.95 for a fillet steak. Most main courses come with vegetables but a side dish or salad can be added for £2, including fine green beans with mint and garlic, creamed spinach, rosemary potatoes or French fries.

Little room was left for desserts but we somehow managed to force ourselves. From the homemade puddings and huge variety of ice creams, we chose chocolate tiramisu and vanilla panna cotta served with fruit compote and fresh raspberries. It was, however, difficult to decide as also on offer were lemon tart, chocolate fondant served with vanilla ice cream, chocolate cheesecake and cappuccino mousse served with caramel and vanilla ice cream – all £3.95. The panna cotta was one of the best I’ve ever tasted (and I’ve tried many as it’s a favourite). It had just the right firm yet creamy consistency with the compote and raspberries providing a nice sharp counterbalance to the custardy sweetness. The tiramisu was light yet satisfying in a comfortingly cakey kind of way – exactly as it should be. The desserts perfectly ended an excellent meal.

Our hugely enjoyable three-course feast for two with two glasses of the palatable house red plus coffee came to a reasonable £54.30, excluding service. Highly recommended – but make sure you get there soon as the word is definitely out.

The Vine Restaurant, 7 Grove Promenade, Ilkley, West Yorkshire, LS29 8AF. Open Monday to Saturday, 12pm until late and Sunday 12-4pm. 01943 609312, www.vineilkley.co.uk
Amazing place to go for dinner. I have been there just once, but if I would be leaving closer, i would definitely go there. Friendly staff, tasty food, average prices."Frequented by politicians of many persuasions, the comfortable tables are not crowded and the service is friendly but very professional. The menu is classic Italian cooking and every day there is also a list of the chef's suggestions offering simpler dishes like meatballs with artichokes. The general menu offers classic pasta like spaghetti alle vongole and in season they serve delicious tagliolini with white truffles and fresh funghi porcini. The fresh fish is chosen with care and prepared in all the traditional ways and the chef also has a masterly hand with the top quality meat. There is a good wine list and a reasonable house wine. In warmer months there are tables set outside.
• Via del Pantheon 55, +39 06 679 2788, ristorantefortunato.it. Closed Sun. Average €40 
Series: Rome city guide
Previous | Next | Index
Rome city guide badge
10 of the best restaurants in Rome

Rome rustles up old gems in beautiful piazzas as well as new slants on cucina Roma. Italian food specialist Diane Seed selects her favourites

• As featured in our Rome city guide

    Share 301
    inShare1
    Email

    Diane Seed
    guardian.co.uk, Wednesday 13 July 2011 10.00 BST    
    Jump to comments (0)

Fortunato al Pantheon
Fortunato al Pantheon

Frequented by politicians of many persuasions, the comfortable tables are not crowded and the service is friendly but very professional. The menu is classic Italian cooking and every day there is also a list of the chef's suggestions offering simpler dishes like meatballs with artichokes. The general menu offers classic pasta like spaghetti alle vongole and in season they serve delicious tagliolini with white truffles and fresh funghi porcini. The fresh fish is chosen with care and prepared in all the traditional ways and the chef also has a masterly hand with the top quality meat. There is a good wine list and a reasonable house wine. In warmer months there are tables set outside.
• Via del Pantheon 55, +39 06 679 2788, ristorantefortunato.it. Closed Sun. Average €40
Ditirambo
Ditirambo

This small restaurant near Campo dei Fiori is lively and inviting with its beamed ceilings and stone arches. It is rather dark so it's best in the heat of summer or when the weather is bleak outside. The good varied menu combines Roman specialities like cacio e pepe (pasta with pecorino romano sheep cheese and black pepper) with interesting innovations like thin slices of crisp potato with cheese fonduta (fondue) and slivers of black truffles. The little aubergine timbales and specialities from other Italian regions are very good. There is an excellent wine list with fair prices and an unusually good selection of half bottles. Signora Antonia comes in each day to make the fresh pasta for the restaurant and she is also responsible for the delicious desserts on the menu.
• Piazza della Cancelleria 74, +39 06 687 1626, ristoranteditirambo.it. Closed for lunch on Mon. Average €30 The Troiani brothers, Massimo, Giuseppe and Angelo opened Convivio at its original address in Via dell'Orso in 1990. Today it is regarded as one of the best restaurants in the city. It is a place for special occasions with its elegant rooms and beautiful tableware. The menu is an exciting mixture of old and new. Many of the traditional Roman favourites are given a new twist, such as "new style" boneless oxtail with celeriac puree, and Angelo combines seasonal ingredients with panache in his new creations. This is great designer food and people are encouraged to order a series of half portions to create their own tasting menu. Most of the great wines are present on the wine list and Massimo is happy to suggest different glasses of wine to go with each dish ordered.
• Vicolo dei Soldati 31, +39 06 686 9432, ilconviviotroiani.com. Closed for lunch and Sun. Average €120Family-run, frequented mainly by locals and cheerfully chaotic, but the service is warm and friendly and the food is good Roman fare. Start with garlic bruschetta served with prosciutto, sliced by hand, and then try one of the excellent traditional pastas. This is a place to order family-style lasagna when available and then one of the prepared main dishes, although the grilled meat and fish are equally good. Vegetables in season are on the menu and there are a few homemade desserts. The wine list is small, but carefully chosen with fair prices. At dinner, the pizzaiolo is busy working away at his corner oven. The summer sees tables outside on the pavement.
• Via Giovanni di Castel Bolognese 63, +39 06 581 2792, latavernaccia.com. Closed Wed. Average €25As the name suggests this is a Tuscan restaurant, and it serves some of the best meat in the capital. A chilled glass cabinet stands at the entrance, hung with massive pieces of meat. There are many dishes on the menu but most customers choose the grilled beef, which can be accompanied by fagioli al fiasco, dressed with prize-winning olive oil, or thinly sliced fried potatoes and Roman artichokes standing on their head. Starters include hearty ribollita or faro soup and the long Tuscan pasta, pici, while in season the tantalizing aroma of tagliolini al tartufo bianco issues an almost irresistible invitation. Wines from all regions are listed and you can finish with a good homemade dessert. In summer there are tables outside.
• Via Germanico 58/60, +39 06 397 25717, ristorantedaltoscano.it. Closed Mon. Average €40
Vascello, high up in the Monteverde area of Rome, is run by two Sardinian couples. In summer the tables outside get all the breeze and provide a welcome escape from the heat of the centre. The large ravioli with ricotta and lemon zest and the spaghetti with bottarga (cured fish roe) are Sardinian gems but Angelo also makes some of the best carbonara and matriciana in Rome. In the evening you can order thin, crispy pizza and there is a good choice of meat and fish dishes. Angelo's wife, Dorina, makes the delicious desserts and since her torta di ricotta sells out every evening do ask her to save a portion for you if you are eating later. Try the Terre Bianche wine.
• Via G Massari 8, off Via dei Sprovieri, +39 06 580 6517. Closed Tue. Average €28
il Tempio attracts the many Romans who love good seafood. Francesco and Cristina are passionate, often driving to two fish auctions a day to get the finest catch. The fish here deserves the ultimate Italian accolade: "It knows the sea". The creative hot and cold antipasti are delicious but the pasta with granseola – spider crab – is delectable and the sword fish agnoletti with red pepper sauce must be ordered when on the menu. If you want to sample the excellent fish for main course, or the desserts, you will need to skip the antipasti or pasta. A good wine list completes the pleasure. There are tables outside in the warmer months and an elegant new sala downstairs.
• Via Verri 11, off Via Labicana, +39 06 700 4741. Closed Sun. Average €50Cecilia Metella, daughter-in-law of the legendary Roman general and politician Crassus (reputedly the wealthiest man in Roman history), has a splendid tomb on the Appian Way. From the restaurant you can see the crenulated tower through the trees – it has inspired scrigno, a speciality pasta cooked and served in terracotta bowls. There is a large, magical garden and generations of children have allowed the adults to enjoy their meal as they gaze entranced at the turtles and goldfish around the fountain. If not scrigno, there is also the ziti al prosciutto, but to really enjoy this sinfully buttery dish you must throw dignity to the wind and tie your napkin round your neck. There is good grilled meat and fish or the flaming pollo al Nerone. Finish with the little wild strawberries from Nemi. In winter it's worth booking a table near the fire.
• Via Appia Antica 125-127, +39 06 513 6743, ceciliametella.com. Closed Mon. Average €35
