The new owner has worked very hard at listening to the feedback and making any necessary improvements and I just wish the negative reviews could be deleted. Someone who had a less-than-stellar experience six months ago will find a meal, atmosphere, and service that they will not be able to badmouth now. 
The food is excellent, the ambiance is delightful, both in the courtyard and indoors, the service is attentive without giving you the sense of being invaded or hovered over. Reviewers who just make mean comments because they can, this being the anonymous Internet, just make themselves look bad. Better to post constructive criticism, I feel. At any rate, I have no criticism at all! 
Last night's meal was excellent, the wine suggested was right up my taste buds, we were well taken care of and, most importantly, the food was delicious. This restaurant has been around a very long time and it has undergone a wonderful renaissance. If you do try it and something is less than perfect (oh my, you're upset because the bread isn't the best bread you ever had in your life...?), then just ask to speak to Brad about it. He will hear you!
This Restaurant ruined the end of a great mother - daughter weekend for a large group to eat there. First my daughter had found a Groupon special, so I called and asked Brad the owner if he could let me know if he would honor it before I bought, he said he would. But when we got there we were told my daughter & I we could not use it.
Then our group was told he had a special menu for our group at a special price. We were able to chose from three pre selected item & when we got the bill ours "special" price was that each plate was double the price of the item on the regular menu!!! What a ripe off!! 
Plus at our table of seven where we received poor service &'warm water, our waitress had added a $58 tip. By the way, she was Brad the owner's daughter. 
I am asked by many people that know I visit Santa Barbara often where is a good place to eat. I will assure you I will make a point to tell people, small or large groups to STAY AWAY FROM ALDO'S RESTAURANT
Horrible waitress... She told us she would charge us $15 to split a plate if anyone wanted to share a dish. I asked her if I had a bit of my friends pizza if she would charge me and she said yes! Really? I could tell she was from. The east coast... She was blunt and came across as rude. We were there for a burial party brunch and she was not accommodating at all. She informed us that we all had to order food otherwise we were wasting her outdoor space. Really? I think a bunch of cute 20 something's would make the place look a little better with people actually sitting at the restaurant. Because of her rudeness I would never go back. Ever. And the food was not very good.
Tourist trap, and I fell right in. Guilty.
Hm, not sure where to begin on this one. So let's start off with the bread. The bread is straight off the shelf of Ralph's, and the olive oil with garlic is 100% pure garlic. It was painful to even taste, so I asked for marinara sauce. Oh, but that came at the price of $2 and 30 minutes.
Quickly decided I needed a drink, and what better to suit a Sunday holiday afternoon than the classic bloody mary. That can't be to hard, right? Wrong. It was a watery (and incredibly bland) tomato-like juice with perhaps a drop or two of vodka.
Onto the pasta and salad, perhaps on par or worse than the bloody mary.
I wish I had read the reviews before coming, so hopefully you'll take my word for it and save your $40+ dollars on a meal here.
Worst experience EVER! We were too tired to go drive anywhere so we decided to just check this place out. 
We got seated immediately and that made me happy. However It took our server about 15-20 mintues to just greet us and take our orders. We got water and bread from the busser/bus boy. Once we order we noticed there were 3 empty tables. So we're eating our bread and the tables slowly starts to fill up. The tables are quite close together, so I coudn't help but notice how we got our soup the same time the table next to us did. 
Worst of all is when the server dropped off the soup. So the tables are really close, she decides to place herself in the middle of the two tables, stretch her arm out, and she facing the wall while she's doing this and she lowers her arms to put the soup bowl down without trying to see if it would spill or not. Why did she do that? Why can't she face one table, put the soup down and turn around face the other table and put the soup down? I just don't freaking get it..Anyhow luckily the bf grabbed the bowl from her before she completely let go because she placed it on his silverware. The soup was about to topple over. 
So beside the fact that she didn't think correctly why is our soup 25 mintues later? So as we sat the two other tables have already received their entrees..Um wth? We were here first. This is a total about maybe 35-40 mintues later, the waitress comes by and stated that the Chef didn't like how my salmon was cooked so he had to recook it. WTH? 
I was thinking off the bat "Alright if he's actually doing that I better get a salmon that is not overcooked, because I'm going to throw some elbows". Okay not literally, but you know what I mean..
Anyhow of course when I received the fish it was super over cooked. I thought it was me just upset since we waited an hour for our food. The bf tasted it and we cut the fish apart to see how it was cooked, it was SUPER OVERCOOKED! How can you do that after making me wait for 1 hour? 
I super upset, the waitress didn't offer to help me out too much, I just told her that this wait is unacceptable and she just said ok. She didn't apologize. Another person came along, I'm not sure who she is but I saw her servering other table but she apologized and asked if I wanted another dish, she even offered me dessert. They took the fish out of the bill. I did not eat it after my one bite, I was super upset about the service. 
So Never AGAIN! How do they even get four stars?
would give this place three and a half stars, but probably not four. It's a nice location right on State Street, and the restaurant features an outdoor patio and indoor tables that also provide outdoor views framed by large steel-barred windows, which both charmed and frightened me. The place was practically empty when we walked in, but that was probably because it was 5:30 on a Tuesday. Apparently Tuesday is Family Night, when children get free or practically free food, but since we didn't have kids, we brooded a bit about society's privileging of breeders over barren folks. To mollify myself, I ordered a glass of Montepulciano, which wasn't bad, but they served it in one of those puny chintzy diner glasses instead of the big crystal fishbowls that make red wine taste extra fine. 
The bread was on the stale side, though great to dunk into the elixir of olive oil, fresh garlic, and parmesan shavings. My friend's vegetable lasagna came topped with steamed spinach, which she promptly tossed aside (which I then tossed into my mouth--it wasn't bad, just a tad mushy), and the noodles, ricotta, and sauce were good enough, though the zucchini and yellow squash seemed overly boiled. My linguine in tomato sauce featured two golfball-sized homemade meatballs, which were, again, not bad, but the pasta wouldn't qualify as al dente and frankly the dish was overpriced. The spumoni we shared went down easy, but overall, there wasn't much wow to the food. On the other hand, our waiter (donning hipster spectacles) looked delicious.
The dining experience Executive Chef Elise Wiggins and her culinary staff dish out is "like you've died and gone to Italy." Depending on your mood when you reach Panzano, you can grab a table, choose a booth, or sit at the bar. No matter where you perch, you're sure to enjoy great northern Italian dishes prepared in an open kitchen. Homemade ravioli, spaghetti, and lasagna are traditional favorites, crafted with culinary precision. A nice wine list offers American and Italian vintages. Located adjacent to the Hotel Monaco.
This small Lakewood trattoria is considered by many to be a hidden treasure, secreted away as it is in a nondescript strip mall. Inside, the cozy, family-style atmosphere beckons you to linger over savory pastas and enjoy a glass from the reasonable wine list. Start off with crusty mozzarella bread, and then order chicken breast topped with white wine cream sauce and a variety of cheeses. Seafood and even buffalo dishes also appear on the menu.
Buca Giovanni is a very authentic Italian restaurant in a romantic basement deep in North Beach. It's always reliable with great food and has been around for years. A meal runs around $30 per person.
800 Greenwich @ Columbus 776-7766
Garlic to the Max - $25/person
has excellent vegeterian pasta at low prices in a cafe style atmosphere. Located in the trendy Marina District. Italian food at 2027 Chestnut 474-3400 (North Beach location also). ($15 for 2). Click on their logo for more info...
Il Fornaio is a California chain, but has great Italian authentic food in a romantic atmosphere. Excellent bakeries in the restaurant and in a nice park (Levi's Plaza). About $70 for two.
Caffee Macaroni (click to see more) is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach @ 59 Columbus / 956-9737
North Beach Restaurant
Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks). 1512 Stockton Street @ Columbus in the heart of North Beach 415-392-1700
Our Readers Recommend:
Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..." (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person.
1257 Taylor @ Washington 415-922-2545
Ti Piacera - Northern Italian restaurant recommended by a reader for great value.
1507 Polk St. 415-771-9946
Word on the street is... "Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro. Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu."
4109 24th Street. San Francisco. Phone: (415) 282-5872
We heard... "I tried a new Italiana restaurant in the Castro (on Market St.) Repastoria Satyricon. The food was great (I had a salmon and pasta dish and my partner had the polenta), the ambience was warm and cozy, and there was a decent selection of wines by the glass. Service was very attentive also."
Review: For the past twelve years, my family ,along with my brothers family and my brothers friends families have been traveling to Cherry Grove 'Umberto's" is always a must! With a crowd like ours we always get a little taste of everything, and everything is exquisite:) Excellent service! One year we were there and the owners daughter told her dad "These people came in at 7:PM, and they're still here." He told her "They know how to eat." He came and sat with us for a good while, he's from Pittsburgh and we are from Philly. "All I want for Christmas is the recipe for their Pasta Fagioli! I made a large pot tonight, it was very good, but it wasn't UMBERTO'S:(
Phila., Pennsylvania

Review: A trip to Myrtle Beach is never complete until we go to Umbertos. It is usually on our last nights stay that we go there and pack up the plentiful portions to bring home in our cooler. My husband and I are teary eyed as we share how the meals remind us of our Italian grandmothers cooking. The greens and beans are out of this world and Umbertos shares the recipe. I made them just this week and doubled the recipe because we love it so much. A gentleman from upstate New York recommended Umbertos to us. Mangia!!!!!!! It's our favorite family and romantic place for dinner in Myrtle Beach.
Denver, North Carolina

Review: NOTE TO EVERYONE READING THIS SITE: There are TWO DIFFERENT restaurants in the Myrtle Beach area called "Umberto's". They are quite different. The two restaurants are less than 10 miles away from each other and are both on Hwy 17! Make sure that you are going to the right restaurant! One is Umberto's at Coquina Harbour, which is at 720 Highway 17, #A5, in Little River. The other is Umberto's At Barefoot Landing, which is at 4886 Highway 17 in North Myrtle Beach. I suspect many of the reviews on this site are for the wrong restaurant!
Roanoke, Virginia
Review: Almost didn't go to the restaurant based on the reviews I had read here. So glad we did not let the opinions of those posted deter us. I had the ribeye scampi special and my husband had the pork chops and they were both out of this world great! The pasta marinara that was served prior to our entrees is embedded in my memory. I could have licked the bowl clean! The atmosphere was great and everyone working there made us feel relaxed, attended to, and comfortable. My husband and I have dined all over town and out-of-town and will definitely put this restuarant on our list to return to. The restaurant was clean, table linens were clean and I have no idea what these other posts are referring to.
N. Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
Review: My husband and I arrived about 6pm on a weds, The bar was full (which you walk thru to get to host) and we were seated, The problem was, we were seated right next to a large group that had children, etc. There were only 3 other tables of diners. We soon decided that we would request a different table as soon as a server came. Problem is no one EVER came to wait on us. There were two servers working the other tables and even after one of the tables left, they cleaned that table and reset it...walking right by us several times! We sat for about 15 minutes without even being acknowledged then we left, Ironically, the "host" told us to have a nice day as we walked thru the bar on our way out! Whoa, this was a crappy experience....however, we did seek out a new Italian restaurant.....see review under Benny Rappas (yum!)
Stockbridge, Georgia
My husband and I live in Little River. We had heard about your restaurant, but had never been there. We came about a month ago, with a friend of ours. He had bragged so much about your restaurant, so we wanted to try it too. We ordered the pork chops and when they were served, they were almost black. They were very dry and just warm, nothing like we were told. Since our friend spoke so highly of you, we didn't say anything, but the more we thought about it, we felt impelled to tell you. There were very few people there, so there was no excuse. They looked like they had been warmed over and brought out. Please get back with me by e-mail. Barbie Harter - Little River Resident
Little River, S.
I have heard so much about this restaurant that I could not wait to dine there. The waiter was pleasant , his service was good. The floor needed to be vacuumed badly, it was a dark colored carpet & everything from the dinners the previous day showed up on it. The napkins wer badly stained & table cloths wrinkled. I have been a server all my life so I was amazed by these things. The owner ( woman) came to our table wearing a shirt as strained as the napkins. The food was passable. I had the chicken marsala which was to sweet and not like any other marsala I have had before. The prices were reasonable but I think they should consider a new cook or differeft italian recipies & please new napkins..
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
I don't know how some reviews are so negative, I have gone here every year on a wed. night for the past 10 years and have never had a bad experience. I found the wait staff very pleasant and helpful and Liz the Piano Player remembers me as Mr. New York every time I visit, and I am looking forward to going again this year on May 12th.
Rensselaer, New York
this is the worst italian food I ever ate,the bread dip tasted like vinegar out of the bottle,soup was cold,asked for angel hair was offered fetticune which was overcooked,the pomodoro sauce was gross,veal looked like a frozen patti,very dry and tough,marsala sauce was cold,I am Italian from the NYC area,it's beyond me how a restaurant here can try and peddle this food as authentic Italian
North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
Excellent, relaxing Live piano music and singing by Liz. Cuisine was excellent also, Service was good. We will be back, thanks for a lovely evening
Ny, New York
Very good, we didnt have the problems mentioned in other recent reviews and we had a very large party. Everyone seemed pleased, pork chops huge, crab cakes the most real crab ever, strong dishes, but very good.
Mount Vernon, Ohio
If you like a large bill for prime rib that looks like pot roast, this is the place to go!
Fayetteville, North Carolina
My experience there was terrible. Other than nice atmosphere, someone playing piano, it was a big disappointment. The staff was very rude, no smiles. It has a 4 course dinner, they mentioned the soup course will have ham and when I told them we don't eat ham they didn't offer anything else instead. Told us the pasta course was with marinara sause, I asked if we can have alfredo instead of marinara, they said ok, then later found they charged us $$ extra for this when they never mentioned it will be extra.. The main course was good, but that hardly makes up for the staff rudeness. To add insult to injury, just checking my credit card charges, I found they overcharged me 30% over the bill amount i signed.. apparently retaliating for me leaving no tip, which I did for the reasons explained above.. Unlucky for them I check my credit charges and caught them and have reported to the credit card company.. I still can't believe people operate business this way and expect customers to come back!
Minneapolis, Minnesota
This is the worst restaurant I've ever been to. The place is a dump: dead flies on the window sills, smells dirty and smoky, the furniture is shot, table linens weren't ironed and were fraying. Food was inedible. Frozen crab appetizer smothered in cocktail sauce on iceberg lettuce was $15. My shrimp was still frozen in the middle, and the fettucini alfredo was watery and piled with jarred garlic chunks all over the top. The bread wasn't even good. After my polite complaint about the meal, I received angel hair with spaghetti sauce that was worse than anything that I've had out of a jar. The manager didn't even take off the full meal (a whopping 24 dollars) off the check. Service was nice, but I would never ever go here. A huge waste of money. People who say this is good italian food have obviously not strayed far from South Carolina.
Little River, South Carolina
We were a party of 11 including two children. Great service, very nice waiter. Great bean salad and tomato salad. You can have as many refills on these as you can eat. Kitchen staff went out of their way to prepare gluten free food for our daughter who has celiac disease.My steak was great. We go to this restaurant every year when we visit Myrtle Beach.
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Jackie and Lee Have been consistently on top of their game. I have never had a bad meal or a bad time at this place! Tom you are my hero! If you haven't been you don't know what your missing!
North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
I love it. I asked for a pork chop marsala, and the chef made it with no problem; even though it was not on the menu. The chop was cooked perfectly and the marsala had fresh mushrooms. The caesar salad was great, bread and oil with balsamic, who could ask for anything more. Oh yeah , I received soup and pasta as well. I was full when I left and happy. I think next time I'll skip the soup and pasta. WelI might have a few bites, but I will be holding back until the entree comes.
Wilmington, North Carolina
We loved it! Best Italian Restaurant we found in the Myrtle Beach area. Crab cake and banana pepper appetizers were delicious. Veal Piccata was outstanding. Osso Bucco melted in the mouth. Great wine selection and friendly service. Fairly reasonable - great value for the price.
Philadelphia/culpepper, Pennsylvania
This is a must go to restaraunt. We love it! Best crab cakes ever!! Have always had great service and we love the view. We stay in Ocean Isle and make the trip down to Little River every time (probably have been there eight times). We can't wait to get back there in May.
Girard, Ohio
Thought we would try Umberto's on our latest trip to the Myrtle Beach area. My wife and I were very disappointed. Very limited winter menu. My wife's fettucini alfredo was very soupy with very little flavor. My chicken parmesan was alright but nothing special. The best thing about the meal was the bean soup. The waiter was a little overwhelming, even a little scary. First and last visit to this restaurant.
Chester, Virginia
There is nothing they could improve on.
N Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
WOW! What a dump. Our friends from back home highly recommended this restaurant. Our first impression of this place was the swamp-like water in front we assumed was intended to be a fountain. we walked inside and noticed the fogged windows blocking what could be a great veiw. We sat down and order drinks (grey goose martinis) our server waited at the bar until the bartender put his video game down to make our drinks. there was also speculation our server was eligible for social security. then we noticed the entire staff was the living dead, just old and lifeless. The food wasn't bad if you could hold an appitite due to the surroundings. The bathrooms were filthy. The mens room ceiling was leaking. I'd hate to see the kitchen. We later found out we went to the wrong Umberto's. DONT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE.
Springdale, Pennsylvania
What can I say? The front end staff blows away the back of the house. I have eaten here twice. Great service, nice tinkly piano, beautiful view of the marina. Lousy food. And by lousy, what I mean is, when I pay top buck for food, I really expect the food to be the deal maker. In this case, the wait staff saves the day for the place. The food? I don't know how to best describe it, hmmm... OK, say your high school grad goes to Pittsburgh culinary institute? And moves to Myrtle Beach? And you get a call saying he is the new chef at Umbertos? That is how to best describe the experience. Lots of salt, nothing that says "wow". More like "wow! All that salt is burning my mouth..." And, "Oh gosh, vodka sauce! How original!, is it 1990 yet?"
N Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
We had a party of 6 and I was the only 1 of the 6 that had an ok meal. The waiter sucked. He told us this wasn't his station, but he was doing it anyway to help out. Why bother if you arent going to provide good service? He brought the drinks and oil for the bread...but no bread. After about 15 minutes my friends daughter went to get the bread. The bean soup was good, but the waiter only bought 1 bowl for the 6 of us and it was the same size used for a party of 2 next to us. The meal I had was ok but not what I thought it would be. I was the only one in our party that was even somewhat happy with their meal like I said it was ok. The steaks my girlfriend and her daughter had weren't much they had no seasoning at all. Our checks came and the waiter wrote in his tips on all the checks like we were not smart enough to figure it out. I almost marked it out and wrote in what I thought he was worth but I didn't want to cause a scene, I just wanted to get out there, This was my first trip to the Myrtle Beach area and I thought if this any indication of the type of resturants in this area I will never come back here again. I will tell everyone I know not to eat there and will never go there again. Alan Thomas
Lawrenceburg, Kentucky
My entire family and I were in Myrtle Beach 8-30-08 through 9-6-08. Our first night there we were looking for somewhere to eat and found Umberto's. This has got to be the worst experience of my entire vacation. We were tired and very hungry. The waiter acted like it was a burden to wait on us, the food was not good at all. From the New York Strip Steak dinners to the Pasta Dinners. There was no one at our table happy with the food nor the service. The prices would have been okay if the food and service were worth it. Very expensive and very much not worth it. I can say I will NEVER be back to their establishment again. I have been to Myrtle Beach numerous times and this really started my vacation off in the wrong mood. Would not feed the left overs to my dog.
Winchester, Kentucky
We had a party of 6 and only 1 of the 6 was satisfied somewhat with the meal served. The food was very bland. Its a shame when you pay so much for a meal and you have to load it with salt and pepper. The waiter sucked. He even told us this wasnt his station, but he was doing it anyway. Why bother if you arent going to provide good service?? He brought the drinks and oil for the bread...but no bread. After 15 minutes my daughter went to get the bread. The bean soup was good, but the serving size bowl for the 6 of us was the same size used for a party of 2 next to us. The meals werent very tastey, but the prtion was large...who cares if it doesnt taste good? If you wanted to maybe share a meal with someone there was a $12 fee for the use of a plate. The steaks were over cooked and didnt have any seasoning on them. Then the checks came and the waiter wrote in his tips on all the checks and it was 21%!! Are you kidding me?!! We will never go to this restaurant again. It was poor quality of service AND food. 21% tip??? We felt like we were robbed. We had too much class to make a scene. But be forwarned!
Paw Paw, Michigan
Food was very poor. The salad had too much garlic. The red souce was very, very salty. The fish was less than average. There were 12 of us and only two of the group thought the food was good. The rest of us felt that the quality of the food was very poor. We will not be going back.
North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
We have eaten here 5 or 6 times. We have enjoyed each time, have been with a large group and the service was good until this last time when we took our daughter and son-in-law and told them how good a place this was to eat. We called for reservations at 6:30 pm. When we arrived nobody had put the reservations on the list. Fortunately, there were plenty of tables available. The entrees were fair, but not as good as what we had at other times. When we left, we walked to the marina to look at some of the boats and on our way back to the car, we were greeted by the waiter who called us over to the restaurant porch and asked what was wrong with our meal and why had we not left more tip. There were other people going into the restaurant who stopped to stare and it was very embarrassing. The next time we decide to go out to eat, it won't be this Umberto's.
North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
I visit the Myrtle Beach area twice a year (once with the guys golfing the other with family). One of the guys suggested Umberto's during a golf trip. This is now a regular stop for me. The last visit was in December and we stopped around 3 o'clock before the restaurant was open. They let us in and the cook waited on us....the waitress came in and started early and the owner came in and was very nice. The service is always great. As usual the food was fantastic. Love the bean soup appetizer....large portions....not inexpensive.
Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania
My family and I dined at this restaurant with our two children ages 12 and 10. The atmosphere was stuffy at best and it was clear that parties of 4 were treated with less quality then parties of 10, especially if you have children with you. Although we were offered a childrens menu for our kids, when it came time to order we were told that our 12 year old could not order spaghetti and meatballs from the childrens menu because she had to be 10 or younger. Essentially they were forcing us to order an adult entree for our 12 year old. When we told our server that she could not eat that much and merely wanted a smaller meal of spaghetti and meatballs on the kids menu we were told she could not do that. She had to order from the adult menu, period. Needless to say, she couldn't not finish her meal and since we were staying at a nearby hotel that had no refridgeration, more than half of the dish went to waste. We had to throw it out. Our servers demeaner was cold and unfriendly towards us. When I asked if I could make a choice of pasta served with my meal I was flat out told "no" you only get what comes with it. Keep in mind that this is an Italian restaurant. It took forever for them to bring us our meal when the table behind us that came in after us was served quickly. It took over 10 minutes for him to bring me a glass of wine and when he asked if I cared for a second glass and I told him yes, he never brought it and I had to go find him to tell him forget it. I am a former chef and overall the food was very good however we will never eat here again because of the way they treated us and our kids. Being a chef I know that the customer always comes first and whatever they request within reason should be accommodated. There is no good reason that a 12 year old should be forced to choose off the adult menu. Since then, we have dined at numerous restaurants who told us they would be more then happy to let our 12 year old order from the kids menu and that we could do so as well if we choose. That's the way it should be. Bottomline is.....friendliness rules, stuffiness looses. You should eat here if you do not bring kids and you have a party of more than six.
Stanardsville, Virginia
My wife and I recently ate here. We always take our parents down with us, so this was our night away from the whole family, while the grandparents kept the kids. The view here is great, obviously, overlooking the marina. The restaurant is nice, clean, and there is attention to detail. The food is very good, wine is great, but the lone complaint we had is that despite sitting one table over from the window overlooking the marina, we could still hear the lady singing at the piano more than we wanted to. I don't mind some "low" light music while I dine, but she was too loud at times, and overbearing. There is something to be said for a quiet, romantic dinner, and you shouldn't have to talk over someone banging on a piano and singing. Would we go back again? Yes, but I would asked to be seated around a corner somewhere not in direct view of the piano.
Clemson, SO
We were encouraged to try this restaurant and after reading all of the already posted reviews, we gave it a try. What a disappointment! First of all, we were THE ONLY group in the restaurant during the 2+ hours we were there. Kind of felt like we were interrupting the staff members' free time. We had a 3 & a 5 year old in our group of 6 people. They were out of milk and the OJ and water we ordered for the kids came in adult sized large glasses (made of GLASS). Food was a bit pricey and the options were limited (one member HATES Caesar salad and that was the only option). View was amazing (looking out over the harbor). Waiter was great and very prompt and attentive. Kids spaghetti arrived in a SOUP of butter. Bean soup was EXCELLENT but came in a large bowl and we had to serve ourselves (same with the spaghetti that came as our side dish- strange). Wasn't a terrible experience, as we've had much, much worse but I would not spend the time or money to return here or recommend it to anyone, especially when the Villa Romana is only 1/2 hour away.
Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
My aunt and uncle own this place so I've been here a million times. I am NEVER disappointed and make the trip from VA, now MD, for a few days partly just to go there. The food and atmosphere are both amazing!!
Baltimore, Maryland
Concur with the review that said Tom the bartender made you feel like you've been a regular for a long time (by the end of our very first visit). The food was as extraordinary as the service. Just slightly pricey but worth every penny !!! I have been a long believer that Carrabbas had the best Veal Marsala in the world. I was wrong – it’s right here at Umberto’s !!!! The entire staff that we encountered (12 guys on a golf trip) could not possibly have been any more helpful. They were so kind they did not have a gal arrested who tried to steal a picture right off the wall and carried it outside (that is extreme kindness that none of us would not offered). I cannot recommend this restaurant highly enough.
Woodbridge, Virginia
I am a local and live on the marina. Having a place like Umberto's just a walk down the dock is a real benefit. Tom, the best bartender at the beach is there most nights save Tue and Thur and always treats customers like they have been locals forever. Jaquie, Jake and Lee, the owners, normally welcome you. The special pork chop dinner is not for the faint of heart. They are cut at the restaurant and are huge. The Osso Bucco is absolutely to die for. Crab Cakes are homeade and the soup is awesome. Highly recommend this restaurant to anyone.
Little River, South Carolina
My love and I just had our second dinner at Umberto's. We absolutely LOVED it both times! The atmostphere is very romantic and classy. Yet, casual dress is totally acceptable. The staff is very attentive and polite. The food is INCREDIBLE and the portions are large. You can also share a meal and get charged $10.00 (which includes the delicious bean soup and phenomenal caeser salad, plus bread for BOTH) instead of paying for an additional entree. Entrees range from $13.00 to about $35.00. The outside of the restaurant can be deceiving however. Don't let that fool you! You will have a wonderful experience inside! There's a delightful view of the harbor as well!
Graham, North Carolina
This was a wonderful dining experience. Went there with a friend in October and the atmosphere had a great southern charm to it. Food was great and the lady on the piano had a wonderful voice. Very romantic setting and one I will never forget. My friend made a very nice choice for our dining pleasure. Pookie--Rocky Mount, NC
Rocky Mount, North Carolina
The entire meal wasvery average. I had veal cutlet parm. It was very bland and the breading was thick and not very good. The capalinni was a little overcooked and the marinara sauce was very fair. My wife had a veal dish with seafood and artichokes in a lemon sauce, which was too heavy. This rest. cannot compare to Luigie's N.Y. Italian Rest. in M.B. I won't be back.Singer was good ,however, I went for the food.
Cola, South Carolina
My husband and I were looking forward to our first visit to this supposedly upscale italian restaurant. It started out bad and got worse. Our waiter was almost toothless and the chairs at the table were worn out so that you sank in the middle. The waiter offered to switch them out but never did. The "beautiful view" of the marina was marred by the fogged windows. There was no choice of soup or salad. The bean soup was luke warm. My biggest complaint is that the sauce on the veal parmesan was thick and very, very heavy in spices and herbs. The veal was not pounded. It was thick and grainy. The marsala sauce was watery and tasteless. The bread was dry. We shared our disapointment and comments with the waiter. He smiled and handed my husband the bill. I have had a better food at frazolis..
Loris, South Carolina
I wrote a lousy review of this resturant and they pulled it down. Linda Byron, see I can even sign my name.
Fayetteville, North Carolina
Really lousy service, agressively lousy food,
Fayetteville, North Carolina
Dear Ms. Isbill, We visited your resturant on Thursday, July 19 2007. We ordered Shrimp Scampi and Mussels Marinara, I ordered the mussels as my entre and a glass of Chanti Classico. The waiter who served us was Larry. The shrimp tasted fresh and well prepared, but the pasta was mushy. My mussels were cold, and the marinara was this thick glopp of over salted tasteless mess. I enjoy mussels and have eaten them all over the world, to include the original Umberto's in Little Italy in NY. I attempted to get our waiter's attention, but he never returned, I was able to get the attention of the cute blond waitress and asked her to alert our server. He never returned. The blond gal took the mussels back to the kitchen. I asked to substitute a shrimp cocktail in place of the mussels. I waited 10 minutes to get a shrimp coctail. when Larry finally brought it out to me, I asked for some additional horseradish. 5 min later he returned and told me that there was no more in the house. Also, the shrimp were still warm and not chilled, and the presentation was also lacking. I briefly discussed my displeasure with the manager, (gentleman with little gottee) he listened politely but never offered to make any compensation for our total dissafaction. Our waiter was there listening to our conversation and made the remark that we should never come back. I got the distinct impression that he was annoyed that I was taking up his table without ordering an entree. We will not return to your restaurant. I will follow up this email with a letter, just in case this does not get read. I pruposely did not leave him a tip because he was rude, surley and not attentive. I usually leave a tip if the food is bad but the service is good, as the food is not the waiter's fault. Too bad because we frequent the casino boat and like a good meal after. Linda Byron 806 Greenland Drive Fayetteville,NC 28305
Fayetteville, North Carolina
This restaurant is situated on the busy Hwy 17 which is a turn off in most cases due to traffic. However, this restaurant has a menu that is classy and different. I was not impressed with the level of expertise of the waitstaff, but they were friendly. The view out the big windows is great, and we definitely plan to eat there again.
Monroe, North Carolina
If you like Italian food this place should be on the top of your list. Everything is wonderful and I think we have tried it all. Service is just fine and the view of the marina is a plus. We always enjoy the piano player. Sometimes it can be noisy, but that is to be expected in a resort area and does not take away from the experience.
Clayton, North Carolina
We were here in Feb. '07. (the off season). Our meals at best were average to below average. (I'd hate to try this food when the place is packed!!). We had several chicken parmesan's, a steak, and a house specialty (an Umberto's platter, or something like that), pasta with vodka sauce and a shrimp parmesan. Only the vodka sauce was served hot. Every other dish was warm to luke warm. The salad was LOADED with garlic, so much so that even the waiter warned us that it had too much garlic!! The bean soup and bread & olive oil were the best part of the meal. On a positive note, the server was prompt, and tried his best to make our not so pleasant experience better. I would not recommend this place. 2 out of 6 meals were good, the rest were not.
Scranton, Pennsylvania
It is a must each time i visit the myrtle beach area. The food and service are both outstanding! Brian
Saltville, Virginia
We (group of 10-16 ages 1-61 three different families) have been dining at Umberto's while vacationing at Sunset Beach, NC for over 10 years.
Not only does our large diverse group feel they are worth the drive, but some have planned their length of stay according to which night we are going. We have always had great service, and the two times in over 10 years (that is well over 100 entree's) that an entree wasn't as expected it was taken care of right away. There is something for everyone to enjoy. I'm sure we have tried it all. We usually create a "sharing" plate where each person can taste what they might order next time.
My children who have for years refused to try the soup now love it as much as the rest of us. Someone always orders the Crab cakes and there is plenty of food so you can share or have some to take home to enjoy later. The wine list offers many wonderful choices also. We haven't had to wait with reservations. So visiting the water and boats come after our meal. The piano player helps to compensate/cover the sounds of other diners. She even played some Disney tunes for our smaller friends. We enjoy our dining experience and come back each year.
Dearborn, Michigan
Heard alot about the food and atmosphere. Sorry it took us so long to experience what was being said. Was not disappointed at all !!!! Excellent food and great portions. The atmosphere was elegent yet relaxed. The view of the marina is beautiful and the service we received by our waiter, Chris, was wonderful! We go to Ocean Isle NC every year and this is our favorite place. We will definitely return year after year. There were 3 in our party and we all were very satisfied. A place worth checking out.
Altoona, Pennsylvania
Outstanding food and service. The family style serving of the bread, salad, pasta, was great. Individual entrees were more than ample, especially after we had consumed the first portions. Were it not for the above average noise (conversation of patrons), five star quality. Good family restaurant, or for groups.
Kingsport, Tennessee
Good food with a nice view of the harbor. All but one of our group of four liked their entree, she felt there was not enough flavor in the butter garlic based sauce of the seafood pasta dish she had. The chicken parmesan and blackened chicken pasta were very good. All the meals we had came in very large portions.
Akron, Ohio
Local here!!! Ever been to Italy. So many dishes here are American Italian.
Cuts of meat are great , but the regional food is not there.
Service is great, view is awesome, and dining experience is good.
True food is not there.
North Myrte Beach, South Carolina
Certainly my favorite restaurant in the Carolina's. Our annual large golf group has a least one dinner outing planned for this fine italian restaurant , during our week . Lee and Jacquie and their staff are terrific hosts . Food, service and ambiance could not be better. The veal and pork chop platter is the best anywhere !! Oso Buco to die for for !! Bella !!
Toronto, ON
A REAL dining experience with excellent food and prices for the quality. Reservations are recommended. View is fantastic.
North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
Great food with a spectacular view overlooking the Marina. A top-quality fine-dining restaurant!
Little River, South Carolina
My husband and I celebrated his birthday and the food was wonderful. The portions are large and the garlic bread is sinful. The staff and owners were very freindly and the atmosphere surprising for the location.
I choose places to eat for the experience and the food. The owner of this place has a bad attitude and does not.deserve the business. I came to eat and was told there was not a seat because of a party. I am not interested in being told when I arrive somewhere that I could not even wait for a seat. The food is good but so is my homecooked food. I would warn all to avoid this restaurant as they will not work for your business. You may be setting yourself up for a disappointment if you make the trip. Not worth it!
The first thing I discovered about Serafino Italian Restaurant at 1225 Mount Zion Road in Morrow, Georgia is that they are not there anymore. They’ve moved.
They came so highly recommended, however, that I decided to do a little leg work and find them.
So it was that I descended on their new location at 909 Eagles Landing Pkwy, Suite 120, Stockbridge, Georgia with nine other eager diners in tow.
If you’ve read any of my other reviews, you’ll know that I’m a sucker for authentic Italian fare, eschewing the rubber stamp cuisine of the plastic Italian chain establishments for the real deal that can only be found in the out-of-the-way “mom and pop” places. Serafino definitely qualifies as out-of-the-way. Its new location in a small, cramped “suite” in a Publix shopping plaza some distance off the beaten path is a definite step down from their previous digs on a major thoroughfare a stone’s throw from 1-75.
One of the raves that attracted me to the place was the friendly atmosphere. The owner, it was said, personally makes his way around the tables chatting up the diners. The owner was not so chatty on the Saturday night I visited. If the guy who appeared to be the owner was, in fact, that individual, he rather actively avoided my large party after seating us, opting instead to let two members of the waitstaff answer our questions and see to our needs, which they did adequately.
Unfortunately, I never got to visit the original location, so my frame of reference is limited. But I had been told that the place dripped with ambiance. The new location is way too small to have ambiance. There’s a nice mural dominating one wall and a few scattered generic Italian images and icons here and there, but the overall impression that you’re sitting in a small room overlooking a grocery store parking lot is hard to avoid. Still, they’re just settling in, so maybe things will improve with time.
The food is a whole different story. There aren’t enough "w"s in “wow!” From the bountiful salad bowls and delicious fresh-made breads that arrived at our tables shortly after we did, through the marvelous dishes that followed, there was not one, single trace of a negative comment made about anything any of us put in our mouths. In fact, it was a strangely quite meal as ten people consumed food that was generally acclaimed as the best they’d ever had in silent and reverent awe.
We were divided four and six between two tables, so I’m not sure of what everybody had but I do know what they didn’t have: complaints. In a group that size, there’s always somebody who doesn’t like something. Not here. Everybody liked everything and there was a lot of sampling around going on.
My table of four started with the aforementioned complimentary salad and bread. The bread is especially deserving of comment. Obviously fatto in casa (homemade), the rolls were crusty on the outside, soft on the inside and served swimming in a garlic butter replete with bits of minced fresh garlic.
We moved on to antipasti of mozzarella di fritti and stuffed mushrooms, both of which were excellent. It was particularly obvious that the fried mozzarella sticks did not come from the freezer of the grocery store next door. They were fresh, delicious and oversized by comparison to average restaurant fare. Both dishes were priced at $6.95.
There was a little communication gaffe in ordering as I mistook our Greek waiter’s accent for Italian. I kept ordering “vino rosso” and he kept repeating “vino rojo” — which is actually Spanish, go figure – but eventually we were served an excellent red wine.
Piatti di primi at our table consisted of ravioli al aragosta and ravioli di formaggi. Priced at $17.95 and $10.95, respectively, they were both exceptional dishes of fresh-made pasta in a savory salsa di pomodoro with succulent lobster in the first instance and rich, hearty cheeses in the second. Both were attractively presented in ample portions.
I inquired among others in our party and got similar raves about the cannelloni and the eggplant parmigiano.
Nobody at our table of four had room for dessert, but some of the gluttons at the next table had a great time sampling among the chocolate mousse, the tiramisu and several varieties of cheescake.
Everybody thanked me for making the effort to find the place and vowed to make it an annual stop for our business group and to recommend it to our associates. It is hoped that the restaurant will stay in the same location (unless they find a better one) and will be a little more settled in on the occasion of our next visit.
Serafino Italian Restaurant deserves an overall rating of very good, with excellent food that is a great value for the money weighed against an atmosphere that was average, at best, and service that, while generally friendly and attentive, could have used a little improvement. That said, I’m willing to recommend Serafino as a more than worthwhile stop on the south side of Atlanta.
Serafino Italian Restaurant is a casual dress establishment that does not accept reservations. Seating is very limited so wait times may be extended on busy nights. The restaurant is open for lunch and dinner and there is plenty of parking.
The restaurant does not have a website, but as of this writing, the phone number from the old location — (770) 961-4410 — still works.
After waiting for about twenty minutes, we were led into an Italian dining room, the restaurant is partitioned into smaller separate dining areas. The diners were a mix of older and younger couples as well as some three-generation families (grandparents, parents and grandchildren).
After ordering we sat back and enjoyed the surroundings. Waiting for our meal was not a long or tedious affair, in fact, almost before we knew it, a smiling waitress placed before us our steaming entrees of the best Italian food recipes. Moments after our food arrived we knew why there was always a group of people waiting to get into Mama’s Italian Restaurant. The food is magnifico!
Mama’s Italian Restaurant seems to be always busy, so you might want to make reservations by calling 475-5656, located at 2091 South McCall Road. But sometimes I think standing in line or waiting outside to be called is part of the magic of Mama’s Italian Restaurant. After all, you never know who you will meet while you are waiting your turn!
've long relied on a network of tipsters to uncover exciting budget-priced restaurants. Friends, family, colleagues, and a few trusted amateurs on Chowhound and Yelp have led me to hundreds of great finds. Thanks to Twitter and Facebook, I'm now also connected to thousands of Boston restaurant cooks, bartenders, servers, managers, and suppliers. Think they might have some great cheap-eats tips? You bet they do. For instance, I'd never have stumbled across Victor's Italian Restaurant, a tiny joint in a residential corner of Saugus, without a nod from Anthony Caturano, chef/owner of the North End's estimable Prezza.
Victor's focuses on classic pastas and sandwiches in the genre I call Jersey Italian-American, with roots in Campania and Sicily but a century of adaptation on these shores. Ninety percent of such places are forgettable, but Victor's rises above the dull morass with exceptional care. After one bite of the veal-parm sub ($7.99), a big sandwich served on a quality roll with a housemade tomato sugo and melted parmigiana and mozzarella, I marveled, "Good god, this actually tastes like veal!" Turns out that Victor's pounds, breads, and sautés its cutlets to order, as it does for the similarly wonderful and staggering Essex ($7.99), chicken-breast cutlets with eggplant, sauce, and cheese, and for a half-dozen other cutlet-based sandwiches ($6.99–$8.99). The rest of the menu consists of pasta dishes likewise made to order, and big enough to feed two modest eaters, especially with the complimentary soft Italian bread. The fine, smooth red sauce, with its accents of dried herbs and good oil, appears on many of these, like spaghetti with meatballs ($8.99), featuring two fantastic, fist-sized pork/veal polpetti, a dish that could hardly be simpler or better. For the marinara-averse, chicken Romano ($11.99) tops those great breast cutlets with ham, fresh button mushrooms, and mozzarella in a just-sweet-enough Marsala sauce over a mound of linguine or ziti.
Shrimp fra diavolo over linguine ($13.99) boasts nine shelled, extra-large shrimp, though the sauce, bolstered with sliced onions, is tame even ordered "hot"; add red-pepper flakes for more heat. On weekends, linguine with clams ($11.99) accents 10 perfectly fresh littlenecks with a wonderful white-wine, garlic, and butter sauce. Drink options include a few canned American sodas and bottled water ($1.30). The sunny room is dominated by the open kitchen, just three four-tops with plastic checkered tablecloths; many customers do takeout. With its attractive prices, extraordinary freshness, and the super-friendly service of a genuine family venture, Victor's is a minor revelation — a worthy Italian-American trattoria masquerading as an ordinary sub shop. Many thanks for that tip, chef.
Victor's Italian Restaurant, located at 560 Lincoln Avenue in Saugus, is open Monday–Friday, 11 am–9 pm, and Saturday, 11 am–8 pm. Call 781.231.0532.
used to complain about having to go to Syracuse. Now I can't wait to go because of this restaurant. From beginning to end the meal and service was outstanding. I tell EVERYONE about Joey's and once you have eaten there you will too! Not to mention we normally get there after 9:00pm and it is still great!
Pros: reasonable, right off NYS thruway, everything is great
Cons: none
This is the finest "unknown" or unrated restaurant in the Northeast. Everything served is done to perfection and I've often traveled quite some distance out of my way to dine at Joey's. You will not find a finer filet mignon anywhere, even at the best steak houses. Sauces are to die for and the service is outstanding. I always eat downstairs because I love the bar and atmosphere.Pros: Filet mignon, perfect, Everything
Cons: There are none
Every so often I have a meeting near this restaurant with some local colleagues. The first time they arranged dinner here I was more than pleasantly surprised. Excellent and authentic Italian cuisine. Near Carrier Circle and exit 35 on I 95. Don't miss this.
I can't believe I'm the first to give this place a review. Joey's is a "don't miss"! Classic Italian cuisine in a formal atmosphere. This is a place where you can get dressed up and not stick out like a sore thumb.The service is attentive without being overbearing.The food is great. If you're staying in one of the Carrier Circle hotels this is the place to eat. If you're not, it's still worth the drive. Even if you're not in the mood for Italian, the Filet Mignon is the best around!
Great Place!: Great food always. Probably the best place to go if you want an excellent meal with great quick service. I recommend the Filet Mignon, absolutely superb! Great place for a date, and you don't have to worry about he/she not liking it.
The best.............: Everytime I travel to Syracuse, I stay at Carrier Circle just so I can eat at Joey's. The best veal francaise I have ever had....and I've had a lot of veal francaise.The atmosphere is wonderful and the service has always been terrific.I just wish it was closer to New Jersey.
Food that you dream about: If you love Italian food this is the place to go. I have eaten lunch and dinner here and the food is always superb. The service is quick and friendly.
For £15 per head you get Italian food that is a step up from that served by pizza and pasta national chains. The chicken is particularly tender and the range while wide is not over-facing - you leave comfortably well fed. 
Great food! It's was a small wait, but it was worth it. Although the place was busy the staff were great too.
We needed to book this as its so popular. Situated between Rose Street and George St in the centre of Edinburgh. Warm friendly atmosphere in a Georgian building. Rustic touches - hams and chillies hanging down , food served on wooden platters. Staff busy but reasonable service despite this. Food very tasty. Would go back again.
We were going along to the Comic relief wine tasting in the newly refurbished Assembly rooms and thought we would try Jamie's as we had never been to the one in Edinburgh. The venue is lovely and has been refurbished well. We were seated at the top where the starters are prepared. It was stylish and warm and had a nice sociable feel. Our service was spot on , helpful advice from Kyle attentive and after our little extra for being a gold card member we ordered. My husband tried the new Jamies beer which he said was nice and light. Food wise we had mushrooms on toast for me-nice but a little too much black pepper, baked mushrooms looked nice and cheesy. Mains Prawn Linguini and I had the honeycomb canelloni which was very tasty with the chickpea stew which was delicious and the spring greens which were stone cold (not sure if they should have been). A chocolate pot for hubby and some tea concluded the meal.You know what you are going to get at Jamies it has a well trodden formula which does not disappoint with some clever food selection by the diners. 
Perhaps our expectations of 'Jamies Italian' were too great, but this restaurant left us feeling disappointed. Food was distinctly average, nothing horrible, but nothing awe inspiring. Service was good, waiting staff were knowledgeable and attentive and the atmosphere fine. It did lack the true ambience and quality experience we were all hoping for. 
The name would suggest much much more than the experience. There is better value to be had in George St and surrounding area.
We visited on a Saturday night as a group of six to celebrate a colleague's birthday. We won't be back. The service was inattentive, the food was ordinary and the quality mixed. The portions were quite small for the price. By 7pm the toilets had no loo roll and needed cleaned. It should have been so much better. 
Went here for my sisters birthday. Terrible from the start. Ordered a shandy to be given a pint of lager and a bottle of lemonade. Gin and tonic to be given a lime and soda. Asked for main course not to have chillies in it and it was full of chillies. The tuna pasta was so fishy that we could not eat it. Portion sizes are very small. Service poor drinks had not arrived before starters.
What a disappointment. Will not be going back. 
Fabulous restaurant, beautiful decor & great food! The owners have done an amazing job - brilliant to have a really superb restaurant in the area, keep up the good work. 
I was at this restaurant last Saturday 10th September the food was excellent ,service can't fault it overall just what Bonnyrigg has needed for a long time,. good luck to Luigi for along and prosperous future in this business. 
Recently I enjoyed a delicious meal when I visited Gigi's Italian restaurant with my family for a special meal. We were very impressed with the restaurant. As soon as we walked in the door we were greeted by very friendly and welcoming staff. The decor and furnishings in the restaurant are beautiful and the whole place oozes class. The food was absolutely EXCELLENT! We all found the food to be delicious! Between us we ordered different dishes from pasta to meat and all were so flavoursome. I highly recommend the haggis ravioli - I have never tasted pasta like this before it is a must! We shared a variety of different desserts between us-all fantastic! I would very much recommend Gigi's as it has a great atmosphere, lovely staff and amazing food! I will definitely go back! 
Just been for lunch, food was fantastic, service exceptional, really nice decor. Worth every penny, thank you all very much. 
Second time at Gigis. Went with the family - 2 adults and 2 children. The adults used the Groupon voucher. I had the antipasto to start and it was a large portion and excellent quality. Followed up with the haggis ravioli, which was excellent, if not on the small portion size. My wife had prawns which were good. She had a pasta dish which was good and better portion than my main. Kids had pasta bolognaise from the kids menu which they both finished. Finished with Tiramisu, which was light and tasty. 
Overall enjoyed the food and didnt feel at all rushed. Will definitely be back.
Staff were attentive and helpful. 
Went today and the food is excellent, however the service is somewhat slow - perhaps another pair of hands cooking/serving would help. If you are prepared to wait, the food is definitely worth it and at a very reasonable price. 
We have been to Giggis 3 or 4 times now and never been dissapointed,on the last occasion we had 34 guests for a Birthday party, everyone texted myself the following day to say what an excellent night they had, the food and service was first class, nothing was a problem to the staff, thanks for opening in Bonnyrigg 
I had my first experience at GiGi's on Saturday 22nd Oct'11 - excellent. We booked an early table not realising that they catered a late lunch and pre-theatre service. We decided to go with the a la Carte and were definitely not disappointed. My husband had the Rigatone - he thoroughly enjoyed his pasta - al dente and very tasty. I had the Fillet Rossini - may cost a bit bit more but to die for - absolutely superb - cooked to perfection. We followed our main courses with a dessert and liquer coffee both excellent. The restaurant was very quiet when we first went in but soon filled up - with several large parties - that said one of the waiters did tell us that it would get busy later on. The service was excellent also - attentive without being over intrusive - the staff were pleasant and happy to help. I would recommend this restaurant to friends, family and colleagues. It is not over priced and the quality of the food and service is high end. Their location is a bit out of the way, however, they would not be out of place in a city centre location - entirely excellent dining experience so much so we have made our next booking already. 
I went out to Gigi,s with my husband on an unplanned night out. We were well impressed with the beautiful decor , the friendly helpful staff, the good choice from the menu. The food was excellent. Would recommend this Restaurant to our family and friends. 
I have dined at Gigi's in Bonnyrigg with friends five times and have enjoyed the excellent food and friendly service of this family run business.We were made to feel welcome and the owners remembered my name.The restaurant was buzzing and the atmosphere was fun so we stayed longer for cocktails and liqueors.I have had a different dish each time i have dined at Gigis and the quality of the food was amazing.I have read some of the unfair reviews that have been against Gigi's and am sure that these people dined elsewhere and not where we have been dining (Lothian street) ...i dont usually take the time to post reviews but i was angered at one of my friends telling me about a negative review against this quality restaurant ! Its the same old story,,,Bad news is good news and good news is no news at all ! If there is a problem with a meal experience in a restaurant then mention it there and then...and give them the chance to make good... this is what a normal person would do.... Bonnyrigg should thank their lucky stars that there are brave people risking to open a business and creating jobs when others are closing. Looking forward to our next meal at Gigi's. Robert (Loanhead) 
7 of us went for a meal yesterday evening (Sat 11th). For two of us it was our first visit. There was a very warm welcome, service and food was excellent. 
The only issue we had was with the bill! We were staggered with the prices charged for drinks. Unfortunately there was no draught beer, only bottled which was expensive. (Any chance of draught beear in the future?)
We will certainly return to GiGis for any special occasion as the food and service was superb. Inbetween times we will probably try a lunch as we hear they are also excellent. 
I visited Gigi's for yet another visit last Thursday 5th January with my daughter and my husband for his first visit. My daughter and friends have been before but we wanted to introduce my husband to this magnificent restaurant. To say my husband was impressed was an understatement, he enjoyed everything and especially the friendly staff and atmosphere. We live abroad in Abu Dhabi where indeed there are nice restaurants but Gigi's have got everything right. We will certainly be back and so will my husband - you should be proud - he can be a bit of a food critic!! Get potatoes on as an option, hee hee. Well done Gigi's, it's a joy to eat in your restaurant Luigi & Marissa, well done. 
i have used Gigis on about 5 occasions since it openened-and have nothing negative to say about this lovely restaurant. My husband and i have been three times with our children and I have been twice with friends. The choice of meals available was pleasantly surprising and the quality of meals each time has been fantastic. The local area has been crying out for a restaurant like this. In addition to my visits, the stafff and restaurant have been very supportive of the local community - recently allowing the local primary 7 children to use the restaurant for their leaving meal. I look forward to many more lovely evenings at Gigis....thank you 
We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.
Thursday night and trade was brisk.
It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming.
We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.
We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks – a glass of white wine and a beer for me.
We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.
Decisions, decisions ...
For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio – mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.
For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo – grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.
Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.
Tina came to take our orders.
As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening’s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.
Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?

Of all the Bianco restaurants, Italian restaurant is by far my favorite.  It is the best of all three worlds; pizza, pasta and sandwiches, all with the familiar Chris Bianco style of fresh, local ingredients and food made from beginning to end all in house.  
I would definitely say the worst thing about the restaurant is trying to decide what you want to eat!  You could always do what I did though and go with people who love to share!  We had three things the day I went for lunch: Josh's foraging fowls chicken salad with fingerling potato salad, house made mozzarella and prosciutto de Parma, and a special which included fresh made orecchiette pasta with sausage.  This was definitely one of those meals where you did not know what to eat first, because you weren't sure which dish you wanted to last the longest!
Chef John Hall is also a great addition to the newest Bianco restaurant since his farm-to-table background is right in line with the restaurant's concept.  Hiring him was definitely a smart move on their behalf. 
Sincerely looking forward to my next meal at one of my favorite Phoenix restaurants!
Within the Town and Country shopping center lies Chris Bianco's Italian Restaurant, a nod to simple, unpretentious Italian-American cuisine.  There is an emphasis on home-made, fresh ingredients, as is evident in the hand-made pastas and slow-cooked meats.

We were first served some lovely crostini with a creamy cheese (Maybe ricotta?).  We also decided on getting the cheese platter appetizer, which consisted of Brie, sheep's milk cheese, and goat milk cheese with orange marmalade and candied pecans.  It was served with a basket of bread, and a single buttery looking crostini on the cheese plate.  The bread was a little too chewy for my tastes, but the cheeses were quite nice, especially with the marmalade and pecans.  

For main courses, I ordered the crespelle, and also tried the porchetta and papardelle.  The crespelle is like the Italian version of a savory crepe.  It had freshly made ricotta, spinach, and garlic, with a hearty, chunky tomato sauce.  The crespelle tasted decent, although there were large halved pieces of garlic in the filling that still had some "bite" to them because they weren't fully cooked.  The papardelle I tried had a nice meaty ragu to accompany the fresh pasta.  The porchetta was easily the best item out of all our meals.  The slow-roasted pork was very tender, and the sauce had a nice full flavor that matched well with the pork, black-eyed peas, and root vegetables.  

I was kind of torn on what to give Italian Restaurant rating-wise, since the pasta dishes, although impressive that they were freshly made, just tasted OK to me (A 3 star for just the pasta).  However, the porchetta and friendly service helped tip the scales so I'll upgrade to a 4 star rating.
I heard about the recent changes and I thought we should give this place another try. 

Everything we had THIS TIME was very well crafted and made with the finest local ingredients. The prices were also very reasonable for this kind of quality and the portions were more than we needed.

The pasta e fagioli was made with assorted heirloom beans including scarlet red runner beans and the pasta was well crafted and al dente. The soup was made really well.

I had the chicken salad plate. The chicken salad was made with this really well developed dark meat chicken that was cooked so perfect it was a joy to eat. I think it had a little mustard and oil holding it together and it had tiny pieces of green apple and pecans though it making it tasty and delicious. I really enjoyed the vegetable salad on my plate. It was made with heirloom fancy red carrots and heirloom radishes , fresh crunchy cabbage , and parsnips. The vegetable salad seemed light and tasty. On the other end of my plate was fingerling potato salad. The potatoes were warm creamy texture and sort of mustardy. Overall I was very impressed with this $10.00 dish as it far exceeded my expectations.

My husband enjoyed the grilled mortadella and braised cabbage sandwich. The flavors went together well and this sandwich came with a salad. $9.50.

I liked that they got rid of the community tables and made that area a bar.

Unlike my other visits here Chef Bianco was in the house and everything prepared was perfect. I hope when he is not there that his place will run just the same.
'm not going to give you a long-winded and pretentious review here. I went here for the first time to celebrate my mom's birthday. There were 8 of us including my 8 year old and 5 year old.  Everything from the crostini to our main entrees was fantastic. No, the meatballs weren't my favorite but that won't keep me from coming back. Overall, good atmosphere, excellent food and attentive service.
This is classic Italian food and dining.  I felt like I was back in Italy!

It's not going to be what you really expect when you see "Italian Restaurant".  I was a little skeptical being someone who doesn't eat much pasta, but I survived and had an incredible meal.

I know the menu changes pretty regularly, which is fine with me.  There's a few antipasti dishes, pasta, and proteins.  I wasn't amazed by the pasta (Italy still holds that crown) but was happy with the anitpasti and proteins that we ordered.  Additionally, the desserts were fantastic!  Bianco's mother was in town and had made a special galette that night.  It was magnificent.
The wine list is also pretty good.

Keep in mind that it's a small place so it doesn't do a bunch and the restaurant is quite intimate.  That being said, it is the truest representation of classic Italian food and dining that I've experienced in the Valley so that's why it has 5 stars from me.
Not a good meal.  Meatballs and chickpea crepes were too salty. Eggplant and spinach was an unappetizing greasy pile of slime and tasted oily.  The meatballs were accompanied by truly tasteless tomato sauce.  The pasta was nothing special.  Crispy Brussels sprouts were anything but..undercooked and chewy.   And three slices of bread was brought to the table with just enough olive oil for two slices.
I'll start this off by saying I really wanted to like this restaurant. After hearing mixed reviews I kept an open mind, but unfortunately was dealt a mediocre experience. 

The interior was cute, however you can tell that whoever chose the furniture didn't sit in each seat beforehand. We were at what could have been a cute little Italy type of table, but it was SO little that everyone's knees could not fit underneath it. Definitely more little kid than little Italy.  

Another atmosphere downer was how HOT it was inside. Granted it was 116 degrees outside but the open kitchen layout wasn't helping Bianco's case - nor was the server who kept opening the patio door. 

I will say the food was the best part of our experience, however it was mediocre Italian at best. The spaghetti...was spaghetti. I'd make it at home before coming back to order. The gnochhi was the best dish at the table and it was the corn that really made it. The cavatelli was decent (but I was glad I didn't order it) and our friend who ordered the pappardelle was apparently pleased because he ate it all.

If you're a Bianco fan, I'd say give it a go - maybe you'll get a better table, a less awkward server and food worth going back for; it just didn't happen on our visit.
Another excellent meal. Word is getting out around town about this place...last time we went, it was early-ish on  Saturday and there were maybe two or three other couples there. Tonight, Saturday, we arrived at 5:45 and were told it would be over an hour without a reservation. Fortunately, there were two seats at the bar, so we didn't have to wait. 

The food was, again, spot on and delicious. The service was great and gracious, and Bianco was greeting and thanking diners left and right. 

The choices are limited (or possibly nonexistent) for strict vegans, but there's always something vegetarian on the menu if you don't mind being a little flexible on the cheese thing.

We shared the chickpea-flour crepe with olive, sage and red onion. This was fabulous, reminiscent of a potato pancake but more delicate. 

I ordered the Fresh pasta with eggplant ragu, which was velvety with deep, garlicky, parmesan, and husband had the gnocchi with fresh corn. Also terrific.

There's a rotating menu, but I think there's always some variation of a bean side dish. Get it. The two we've had have been excellent. Also, the flourless chocolate cake is a must, and I think they have it every night. 

Really, you can't go wrong with anything on the menu!
The decor is great.  Very nice set up, its fun having a huge window where the kitchen is viewable from the mall side.

That said, the rest of it was not the best..  They give you a crostini appetizer/sample(?) with some kind of cheese on top.  It was super salty and not great... unsure what the point was..

They have Coke Light, I guess a naturally sweetened version of Diet Coke.  My friend ordered it and I was hemming and hawing and decided on the water.  He brought us 2 cokes anyway and charged for both.  I think part of the problem is there's no music, but the noise level is a bit high sometimes.  We had a hard time hearing half the things the waiter was saying and I'm sure it goes the other way as well.

So we tried the Cavatelli and the Gnocchi.  The cavatelli was not the best pasta, sausage pasta plate I've ever had.  The gnocchi got a bit old after a few bites.  Basically a bed of creamed corn, potato gnocchi and chunks of panchetta.  Not terrible, but gets old.

All in all, wouldn't go back.  The prices don't justify the lackluster pasta dishes.  They bring you 4 pieces of bread at a time (we had a table of 4 so we asked for like 2 refills).  The cheese plate is not very big, but tasty.  However, I thought they would bring us more bread for the cheese plate.. didn't happen, had to ask for it separately.  My friend's water glass didn't get filled all night, we tried moving it to the edge of the table too.  We had 4 different waiters and nobody can fill a water glass for over half the dinner?
Set back in a dark corner of the slightly schleppy "Town and Country Mall" (near Trader Joe's), Italian Restaurant is almost hard to find. Walking inside you find a place that does not scream out hipster or cool - but instead yawns with some old paintings that you might find at your cute old Nonna's villa in Naples - with a portrait of a Sophia Loren in her 60's eyeliner glory watching over the dark room. But the food should be the star, right? 

If Pizzeria Bianco is Chris' shrine to the ultimate pie, then Italian Restaurant is his nod to the worship of wholesome and satisfying pastas - in the realm of the Nancy Silverton's consistently fantastic "Mozza" in Los Angeles - along with great salads and Apps. 

Based on my supremely yummy dinner (especially the home made pastas) last week I would dare say that Italian Restaurant is now serving some of the most satisfying Italian food in Phoenix. As a matter of fact, this is the best Italian I have had since my old fave "Ninetta's" closed over 7 years ago (a hole in the wall at 7th Ave and Union Hills). I would strongly suggest you give this wonderful little Bianco gem a well deserved second chance at delighting your senses.

Let me first state clearly that fellow Yelpers and foodies seeking seeking over the top meals laced with just out of cooking school foamy ribbons and ideas straight from some Euro competition will be sorely disappointed. That was what the old (fired) chef Claudio Urciucoli tried with (what I have read on older Yelp reviews here) mixed results. The new chef Robbie Tutlewski is now in sync with the Bianco's vision - creating hearty meals that any Mamma would recognize in a prosecco.    

Bianco is synonymous with simple and yet extremely well executed food that he trys to source locally whenever possible. This man and his gregarious (and much more outgoing) brother Marco are obsessed with growing their own arugula, their own San Marzano tomatoes (which Bianco and his partner in CA are now canning and selling to restauranteurs throughout the U.S.), and even now growing and milling their own wheat for the breads and pastas. 

It seems that Bianco has realized that the sheer simplicity of creating traditional and tasty food staples better than anyone else - perfecting them to the highest possible level- with the freshest and tastiest local ingredients - is the secret to success. 

Enough background - lets talk about the yummy meal. My wife and I joined another couple here and we ordered a variety of Antipasti: The Cheese Plate Mortada was a sampling of  cow, goat and sheep's milk cheeses - all delicious. The AZ Peach salad was a favorite at the table - local and very ripe cut peaches with fresh arugula and flecks of goat cheese with some candied pecans. This is a savory and sweet salad that is (as others have said) perfectly balanced and works like a dream. Yum!

The waiter (Adam I believe) also recommended the earthy grilled zucchini salad - which is complimented with fresh mint leaves, Montamore cheese (like a sharp cheddar) and topped with a sunny side up egg... which added just the right fatty texture and taste. 

I think the pasta dishes are the strength at Italian Restaurant - easily some of the tastiest and best pasta in this town! Some people may not understand that the texture of fresh pasta is vastly different than the dried type that is most common - and from what I understand from Chris' brother Marco, the pastas here are made daily by a woman who's only job is to turn out these morsels of home made goodness. The wheat for these pastas is also fresh, and I believe Chris is now milling the flour too - who else would go to such lengths to bring us pasta that tastes like it was lovingly sourced  from the Italian countryside? 

The "Cavatelli" is a big "O" in terms of flavors - pastas shaped almost like baby hot dog buns - slightly dense and al dente to the bite - served with bits of local Shreiner's sausage, roasted cauliflower and spring onions served up in what I'm guessing was a reduction of stock and a little cream - wow. Fantastic! The potato Gnocchi was pillowy and perfect, complimented by sweet corn and flecks of salty Pancetta. 

The desserts we tried were all superb: A fresh peach crostata (like a tart) was buttery and amazing, and the Italian ices (all fresh) are extremely flavorful - the dense chocolate being my favorite. The flourless chocolate cake was excellent but also a little basic as that is standard fare at many restaurants. 

Any Yelp reviews prior to May 1st reflect the old chef - come back and try Italian Restaurant soon while it is still easy to be seated. Cue Rocky theme music
Tom S. 
Scottsdale, AZ 
USA 
 
18/9/2012 
I first went to Italian restaurant before they had a license to sell any type of alcohol.  It was probably only open a week or 2, but I went with a group of six, and we felt that while the food was OK (3.5 stars at best), after ordering about 6 dishes, none of us were even close to full, and the prices were quite high.  I didn't go back for months because of this.

Recently, a friend told me that the food had changed, and I had to go back and try it, especially for lunch.  I decided to go with a few co-workers, and all of us thought the food was excellent, and the value was apparent.  The 3 dishes ordered were the meatball sandwich, spaghetti with tomato sauce, and cavatelli with sausage and cauliflower.  Every dish was great, and the portions were huge.  It was served with great bread and olive oil, and the service was great.

I went back for dinner a couple of weeks later with 3 of the 6 guests that were at our first foray to Italian Restaurant, and all 3 were skeptical about going.  However, once we got the food, all were very happy that I had convinced them to give it another shot.  We had the mixed grill, which had local sausage and roasted chicken with roasted veggies.  We also ordered 2 pastas, which was more than enough for the 4 of us.  At the end of dinner, the chef sent out a free dessert, which was a cake that was excellent.  

Since I work close to Italian Restaurant, I will go back for lunch at least 2 times a month, which is how often I go to Pane Bianco, which has a couple of my favorite sandwiches in town.
Went for lunch again. Impressed again with the food and the place was twice as busy as I've ever seen it and it was quite loud inside, which I'm ok with. Happy to see this but the service was unfortunately poor for the first time, but I'll give them a pass, this time since I come for the food and wasn't in a hurry. Nice girl but seemed to forget we were there. I don't think they were expecting the rush. I was with 4 others.

I had the special of the day which were the gnocchi with a bolognese ragu. Melt in your mouth MMMMMMM I also got a side of meatballs. They come in 3's. Love em.
As is typical of the Bianco "family" of restaurants, it's delicious, fresh, locally grown or sourced, creative food served by needlessly condescending too-cool-for-school hostess and staff, and subject to a maddening string of nonsensical, rigid rules regarding any changes to fit tastes or dietary requirements. Nevertheless, Enjoy the excellent food and carefully curated wine list.  The stars are all of the homemade pasta dishes and the meatballs, which are light but not full of filler. Just perfectly done. They recently installed a wood burning oven and now offer pizza; I haven't tried it but my spies tell me it pales in comparison to the Pizzeria. Overall I recommend Italian Restaurant, even though it sometimes drives me crazy.
Okay, regardless of the review mix I was all set to really like this place. I had a great experience at the place the owner used to own downtown and boy I was primed. I even took some friends and the father is Italian so I could make sure I had an even perspective but at the end it was sort of...eh, okay, but we've both had lots better.

The restaurant is right in the same shopping center as the Trader Joe's near Camelback avenue in North Phoenix, and that is a pretty cool place. The restaurant is set up as a sort of casual rustic italian sort of place, like the ones I've seen in Naples and that is a nice bit of Italian drama theater, though taking it to the point of serving the wine in small water glasses, a little too authentic. If I'm going to buy a decent bottle of wine, give me a real wine glass. Sorry if it blows the mood but its not the same without a decent wine glass.

I started out with the watermelon and fennel salad, as it seemed it would be cool and refreshing for summer and while it was okay, a bit warm for my tastes, I would have liked it a bit more chilled...wait...sorry, review unfinished and that was a few weeks ago so.....lets just say, relative to the price, I didn't think it was all that great, nothing I had felt like this place was worth a second visit.
Italian Restaurant is officially one of my favorite restaurants in town. After our third wonderful visit last night, it's become our "go to" when we want a great meal, great ambiance, at a really reasonable price.  Each time we've gone, we've tried something new on the menu, and each one is better than the next.  The pasta with lamb was out of this world, but most likely you won't see it again, as Chris changes the menu regularly, depending on what's in season, and the most fresh. However, if you get a chance, try one of their mainstays,  the meatballs, whether in the sandwich, or alone with the most delicious marinara sauce and some of his out of this world bread. In fact, it was so good, we bought an extra order to bring home with us, and I ate it for breakfast this morning! We usually get a table, but last night we elected to sit at the bar, and were so happy we did. Mike and Lisa made the experience that much better, by making us feel welcome, like we were sharing a meal with friends. Oh, and if you like Mojitos, the house Mojito is insanely good. Only trouble is, so good, they go down really quickly! If you've been thinking about going, GO!!!  Do NOT wait!  Bravo Chris Bianco.  You've done it again!
Unassumingly set in the back corner of the Town and Country Mall and demarcated by a sign simply reading "Italian Restaurant" I'll start out by saying that even if Bianco had chosen to put his name on the space it would have been tricky to find, but the fact that it goes under such a generic moniker almost seems to reinforce the fact that the chef isn't trying to rest on his name alone, but instead to focus on the food he holds dear.  With rustic signage and large glass windows looking into the open kitchen there is not a shred of evidence that this is a "celebrity chef" restaurant and, really, if one didn't know any better they could walk right by without paying the space a second thought.

With the time just before 2:00pm and lunch hours till 3:00 I walked through the doors to find the interior largely similar to the outdoors and with the kitchen behind a small bar to the right and three other couples seated amidst the ~40 unmatched chairs and old wooden tables to the left the feeling was instantly anything but that of another Arizona shopping center. Working on a small crew of three during the late lunch hours I stood for a moment at the hostess stand before being greeted by the Chef who introduced himself as Rob and suggested I take any seat I like, eventually settling on a cozy two-top beneath one of the ceiling fans as the room was a bit warmer than I'd prefer.  Settled in and with my books in hand it would not be long before I was greeted by Hillary, the sole server for the afternoon, who presented the 13-item menu.

With a vibe that speaks to a sleepy Italian villa from the shabby chic seating to paintings straight out of the hands of Italian street artists I spent a few moments perusing the menu before Hillary returned and with iced water in hand and the chef agreeable to my gnocchi request it would not be long before a plate of Pane Bianco Bread with Olive Oil would arrive from the kitchen and after a short conversation with my server about what I was reading I turned my attention to the crusty yeasted roll that, while good on its own, was vastly improved by ample use of the grassy and slightly fruited oil.

Moving next to my special request, I really did not know what to expect from the preparation as it was simply listed as "Potato Gnocchi with Arizona Sweet Corn and Zoe's Pancetta" but seeing as how I love all three ingredients I figured it would be good no matter what; little did I know that it would be the best gnocchi I've had in my life.  Beginning first with the potato dumplings, each of the little balls was hand cut, light as a cloud, and literally melt in the mouth tender even after a quick sear in the pan but moving past the obvious pasta skills of the restaurant what truly put this dish over the top was the ragu-a sort of half roasted corn kernel/half creamed corn imbued with cream and smoky notes from the pork amalgam absolutely teaming with both sweet and savory notes. So simple, so rustic, and yet so perfect I simply cannot say enough about this dish-the one that finally unseeded Marc Vetri's 2 year stranglehold on the best version of my very favorite pasta.

As I swooned over each bite of the gnocchi Hillary kept my water filled and stopped by repeatedly to check in and find out when I was ready for my sandwich and although I was sad to see the gnocchi go I was happy to see the "House-Made Mozzarella with Prosciutto Di Parma" sandwich arrive in the same vivid glory as the one from a month prior at Pane.  Again focused on bucolic simplicity and flawless ingredients it would be hard to find fault in this sandwich or its accompanying fennel and lettuce salad in a light vinaigrette but as good as the Prosciutto was I couldn't help but think I liked the tomato slightly better...though I bet a version with all three would be stunning.

At this point quite full and with dinner plans that would turn out to be quite extensive Hillary stopped by and boxing up half of my sandwich asked if I'd like dessert-a suggestion I nearly declined until her smiling description of the Asian Pear Crostata sold me that it was something I should probably just go with - and go with it I did, a bargain basement $5 for superlative poached pear served over a rustic butter pastry and topped with vanilla infused cream. Light, delicate, and much like the pasta and the sandwich a perfect evidence of what one should expect from all of Bianco's restaurants-perfect ingredients largely unmanipulated and prepared just enough to extract maximal flavor.  

A charming space with lovely service and food that speaks to everything I love about Italian it would be hard for me to find a single bad thing to say about Italian Restaurant and with an offer to stay and study as long as I liked the only thing that kept me from lingering at 4743 N 20th St was the fact that it was a little too warm for such a full stomach-it made me feel like I needed a nap; yet another sign of a very successful meal.  I'll be back, no doubt.
I struggled with this review, because there are several very different aspects to Chris Bianco's Italian Restaurant...

Taste - Fantastic. You could drink the tomato sauce and be happy. It is some amazingly tasty stuff, and not a bite went back to the kitchen. Most of it was because of the taste, but even our really bland apple tart was entirely eaten because the...

Portions - Really small. This was part of why no bite went uneaten. They definitely favor quality over quantity, and I'm usually the first person to champion that cause. I hate giant restaurant portions. But this was too far the other way.

Service - Not bad, when we could get their attention. There are several community tables and sometimes different servers seemed to have different stations at the same table. And as small as the place was, it was oddly difficult to get anyones attention to place our order, get a refill, or anything else.

Ambiance - Love the look and feel, from the clean/industrial ceiling to the Bianco art on the wall. It was fun to just look around the place while we waited at our table (which we did a lot of)

Cost - The place isn't cheap. You get what you pay for in terms of quality, but I think they are really, really going for the high-end foodie with lots of disposable income. We left not really feeling full in spite of dropping a fairly sizable check on the table. 

I recommend giving it a try, especially if you are really a fan of fresh flavors. If you're looking for a really amazing overall meal at this price point, I think there are better options around.
Excellent meal! Cheese plate was wonderful - mostarda, grilled dates and a perfect trio of cow, goat and sheep cheese selections.     
Gnocchi - Phenomenal, fluffy pillows of perfection in a beautiful pork Ragu. 
Fettuccine with lemon, olive oil, Parmesan and kale - hello summer!
And last but not least - lovely, melt in your mouth meatballs!
Love it!
My husband and I decided to try Italian Restaurant tonight. We arrived about 6:15, we knew from past experience with Bianco restaurants, go during the week and go early. 

Note: It is tucked away in the Town and Country shopping center. You will not see any signage until you walk towards the restaurant area of the shopping center.

It is a tiny place with not many tables. There is a communal table. I despise communal tables. If I wanted to eat with random people I will join a commune. Anyways, I digress. So we were seated a small table for two. Now this is where the hate comes in. Small table next to another small table. ughh!!!

Also, if you are looking to have a conversation with anyone in the restaurant, good luck with that. Not only was talking to my husband difficult, I could not hear anything the waiter was saying. I can just imagine if it was that hard to hear on a week night what a weekend would be.

Next area of contention is the patio. Ahh this is what I love/hate of Mr. Bianco. Just like Pizzeria, there are seats on the patio but of course you can not order there. Just extra seats for waiting. Now this is genius from a noncomsumer side. Keep the customer comfortably seated while waiting, plus add some wine/beer to the mix. So even if the even customer ends up "peacing out" before dinner, you already made your money on the overly priced alcohol. GENIUS. (prime example Bar Bianco, next to Pizzeria Bianco). Now why I hate this. It could be used for more seating!!!!!! Less wait time. I dont know about you, but my time is just a precious as Chris Bianco's!!

Last complaint, the server was extremely rude. Not sure if he was having a bad night, but anytime I would ask a question or make a clever joke (ok maybe corny joke) he would give me the worse look or answer my question like I was dumb. THe menu is small and many different dishes, so questions will be raised. He also rushed us. I understand that there is a wait and they need to turn over table, but I want to at least feel relaxed, especially when paying higher prices for meatballs.

So why am I giving the restaurant 3 stars?? THE FOOD! It was awesome. Just when I want to have a reason to dislike Bianco, his food reminds me of why I am there in the first place. All 3 stars go to food. The other faults just are too much to be ignored.

We started with the house bread and olive oil. Bread is AWESOME. Does he need to charge $2 for it, probably not, but he knows that more likely than not you are going to cough up $2 for bread. Again, GENIUS!

I had the meatballs and polenta. It was delicious. Was it worth the price ($18) ehh not so much. But again, when in Bianco's restaurant expect to pay a little more

Overall, I plan on returning sometime in the distant future, just not tomorrow.
Like I ever would have doubted a Chris Bianco inspired concept.  Evidently we ate at a different restaurant then the ones who have peppered Yelp with their 3-Star statements.  I found no tarnish on our five star experience. 

The ambiance is comfortable and cozy just like he envisioned.  You do feel like family, especially when Chris is personally visiting each table. Every dish sampled was simple yet elegant and flavorful.  Nothing pretentious, just flawlessly executed family staples.
Soft opening, so take it with a perfect grain of salt.

As much as it is a homecoming for Bianco, being back at T&C is also a re-awakening it seems. A sort of do-over. This is the stuff we always wanted to see Christopher do. As the Bianco Realm expands here and overseas, it's clear that he is energized, yet still as himself as ever.

FOOD
We had...

Grilled head-on white shrimp with white beans:  As good as it gets. Simple, delicious, layers of flavor, but you taste every bean. And suck those shrimp heads! They are awesome. For me, as basic as it was, this was the stand-out dish.

Fennel and orange salad: Refreshing and simple. But good contrast. Great bite between dishes to refresh. Keep one around.

Pork ragu over Fusilli: Hearty, carrot-sweet, firm noodles, rustic chunky pork gravy. This is so up my alley.

Burnt-butter fried sage sauce spinach/ricotta ravioli: good lord.

Seafood stew: these things almost alway look the same. And this is no exception in the looks department. The difference is, where you usually get the same old tomato broth with a bunch of chewy crustaceans and throw-away whitefish... here you get tender bits of delicious sea creatures, each with their own flavor. All in a broth that actually tastes like seafood, not just salty tomato soup. Only suggestion: a big chunk of rustic Marco Bianco bread on the side to sop up all the delicious broth!

Flourless chocolate cake thing with lightly whipped cream: I'm not a dessert guy, so my wife and I split one. We shouldn't have split just one.

OVERALL
Friendly, confident, competent, attentive service. Pretty easy to do on an early soft opening night. We'll see how they do when they're in the weeds. But this crew seems like they're on it, and ready.

The food is what you dream of having if a friend took you to a chef's house in the Italian countryside and said: "We're gonna eat what his family eats when they get together and cook simple, fresh, amazing real food." This is so welcome in Phoenix. And it would be welcome anywhere, if we lived there :-)

As the menu will keep changing, we're looking forward to exploring over the coming years. Bravo Christopher (and Erin and Stevey and Claudio and Marco and Sergio and Crew)!

Italian Restaurant, the generically named eatery from James Beard Award-winner Chris Bianco, is scheduled to open its doors Monday, Jan. 16, 4 o'clock, in the Town and Country Shopping Center, around the corner from Trader Joes. They were right on time.

Chef Claudio, the mercurial boss of the kitchen Italian Restaurant is outside his door to meet and greet just a few folks before he begins his voodoo that he does so well. He shakes my hand and we introduce.

The Tuscany dining room is an old world stage. Fired candlesticks light the walls. Framed pieces of art hang with pride. There is an energy about, that certainly is a tribute to mama, and the "food we grew up with."

I sit at the bar as a gentleman is finishing "home movies" of the guest arriving. Tom becomes my server. He is wearing a Claddagh ring. His is in the marriage position. I have one too, I wear mine in the prowling position. 

I order a drink and Tom brings me red wine from Dos Cabezas Wineworks in glassware you would see at the Italian family table. As a footnote I have been to a blessing of the harvest at this Southern Arizona Vineyard. These Festivals are surreal. Mine included monsoon storms in the distance while walking in the vineyard at night with my date. You can taste the love that goes in this table wine. 

First on the menu is antipasti. I decide to have Pecorino Di Fossa. 6. This is a hard, flaky sheep's milk cheese that you must hold on your tongue resisting to bite for as long as you can. A cheese that has been aged in caves for four months, indeed subterranean holes that occur naturally in the Northern Italian landscape of this area, and they are the source of Pecorino di Fossa's complex flavor and aroma.

It is time for Chef Claudio to fire my Organic Kamut Grain Spaghetti. 14. Chef has been making pasta longer than anything else, so the choice is simple. Server Sidney announces spaghetti and serves me from the left. I look over to her and with the sparkle in her eyes and lovely smile, I'm shot through the heart.

I have an order of Pane Bianco bread to mop my sauce and work my pasta. I taste  slight heat in the sauce from Contorni Peppers. The dish is just perfect.

I finish with a cafe solo in a demitasse cup and a cube of sugar on a demi spoon.

Bottom line I spent 48 dollars for two glasses of wine, cheese and cherries, spaghetti and bread, and a cup of espresso. 

And one last note, tell your server how long to wait to fire your entree, if your in a rush say so, if you want to slow it down to enjoy your experience with your date, say it. And the smaller portions are in line with rising high quality organic ingredient costs.
I'm a Jersey Girl used to red sauce (gravy) great pizza, and meatballs served by people with Italian accents, because they are from Italy.  This is one of the best Italian restaurants I have enjoyed.  The food is real Italian, focus on pasta and meat, not tons of mozz.  I had the Chicken with Peppers, lovely chicken falling off the bone.  My husband has Bolognese and it was the real thing with carrots as the base.   My father had the best sausage cauliflower cavatelli, homemade noodles.  I want to take this restaurant back home to show the mozz crowd what Italian food is.  They source from local farmers.  Five stars plus.
Given our tiny waistlines and the generally enormous servings at Italian restaurants, my two friends and I elected to split a pasta entree (butternut squash ravioli), an appetizer (a hard cheese and sour cherries dish) and bread.  Well, maybe that wasn't the best idea.  Portions here are much, much smaller than you'd expect.  

The food was definitely high quality but, honestly, nothing to rave about.  The pasta was flavorless and the "special sour cherries" in the appetizer just tasted like cherry pie filling.  The bread was top notch though, especially dipped in the sauce from the pasta.  

The place has a lovely, warm ambiance and the open kitchen is awesome.  I would have loved to sit on their beautiful patio, but it wasn't open yet.  Service was impeccable and should be noted.  

I would maybe come back for bread and wine.  I was just a little disappointed in the main event.
I just had dinner at Chris's new restaurant. I was not impressed. I have been dinning at His other restaurants for years and was underwhelmed by the Italian Restaurant.

We were disapointed that the servings were really small but good. We had the spagheti pomodoro. We were also very disappointed that the chocolate cake they serve was the same as they serve at Pan Bianco and it was three dollars more. 

The service was ok but did not care too much for the hostess. She was some what unpolished. I did not care too much for the communal table, it reminded me of Chipotle grill. the atmosphere was noisey and echoed a lot. 

I will probably try the Italian restaurant again.
Chris Bianco is a god among men as far as I'm concerned.

That said, Italian Restaurant leaves me flat. The portions are miniscule, and it's pasta. Maybe it's just me, but I never feel right paying out the ass for pasta. What I had was terrific, but was it THAT much more terrific than what I could've made at home? Yes, probably, but if I'm going to splurge on a cuisine, it's going to be sushi or Indian. Or pizza, I suppose. That's what I loved about Pizzeria Bianco: you felt like you were getting the best pizza in the country for a song. Italian Restaurant is not like that at all.

Also, our service wasn't so hot. I'm talking 10 minute gaps between seating and drink orders and food orders. We'll be back, and maybe, like dave w.'s review below, it'll get better. I hope so.The concept of a small, intimate, italian restaurant is realized. I've gone about 5 times now and every time it gets better.

Meatballs and Polenta are to die for. 
The Pasta and Anchovy sauce was crazy ridiculous.
Hard to believe this is a Chris Bianco restaurant, at least tonight. I ate here a month ago and loved it and was so excited to come back tonight with friends for a belated birthday celebration. I am writing this from the parking lot -- that's how bad an experience it was.
  The sausage pasta dish was nothing like the last time, when it was the hit of the night. . The texture was like paste. We sent it back and when the server returned with a new order she said: chef wants you to know we are experimenting with different wheats and it's all matter of personal taste and palates. In other words, if you don't like it you don't have good taste. We chewed through the toughness -again - because we were so hungry. The only good part was the sausage.
 Service was a comedy of errors. We got our neighbors' appetizers, much to their dismay.
  It's 114 today and was over 90 degrees in the restaurant. The hostess just said she "thought" the AC was out. The people next to us were fanning themselves with their menu. Other people moved tables to try to get cooler but the hostess told us we had one of the best spots in the house.
   Our waitress made no attempt to apologize for any of this mess and dropped the check off with no comment or even the slightest bit of recognition -or discount /free meal - for the troubles. Not even an acknowledgement that this place was firing on NO cylinders tonight.
Absolutely stunning. It was like the whole place was in an alternate universe where everything was peachy keen tonight. There were some high Profile PHX area biz and foodie  diners there tonight whom I will not mention. We can only imagine what they thought, or maybe the kitchen was lavishing all of their attention on them.
  I was embarrassed I suggested it for my birthday dinner with friends.
I was excited to hear Bianco opened a new restaurant at Town and Country. It was Monday and I didn't bring my lunch to work so I thought I'd treat myself and check it out right away! 

Sort of disappointed. I was craving really good homemade pasta. I got the potato gnocchi and I thought was going to be a bolognese sauce but it was more of a chopped/shredded pork sauce (I wouldn't really call it sauce) with heavy citrus and parsley flavor (maybe I misread the menu). Anyways, it wasn't what I was hoping for - pretty heavy for a hot day in May!

I ordered the bread/olive oil too.  And just water. With a tip it came to $20. 

Just a little more than I'd like to pay - even when I'm treating myself - but I'm willing to do it if it's good and I'm craving it! 

Don't think I'll be coming back anytime soon. And I'll definitely either wait until it is cooler and the heavy entrees are more appropriate or I'll order a salad!

Also the service could be a little better. It wasn't very crowded so I got a table right away but it did take awhile to place my order. I asked my waitress what were the best pastas and was hoping she would have explained them in some more detail. She just said the gnocchi was her favorite and I went with that. Next time I'll be asking more questions for sure! 

On a positive note, I love the location, decor and atmosphere.

Just wonder if it's a little too pricey/specialized for that location, considering what else is in that complex. The neighboring restaurants aren't really on the same level, attracting the same people. 

But, I wish them luck and hope to find something to RAVE about next time I venture to try it again!
The food is very good, the atmosphere and interior are laid back, welcoming, and comfortable, and the service was excellent.  That extra something to make the place memorable was missing though.  

The GF and I were luckily able to get seated right away on Friday night by pretending to be senior citizens and eating pretty early.  I had read many reviews complaining that the portions were very small, so I suggested we get an appetizer to start.  We decided on the cheese plate, which ended up being the highlight of the night.  Goat, milk, and a dry/parmasean-esque varietals made the trio that featured a honey, mustard, grilled-onion topping bar in the center of the plate.  We would definitely go back for the cheese plate and apps and wine alone.

For entrees she ordered the spaghetti with the homemade sauce, and I had the chicken caccitorre.  We were both surprised by how large the portion sizes were, so maybe they have made adjustments to that because we both went home with leftovers.  Both entrees were very tasty, mine was fall off the bone tender and moist - cooked to perfection.  The french toast stick looking polenta side was fantastic.  It had a crisp outside with a cornmeal like texture, unique, and delicious.  The food was solid, but then again it should have been given the price ($14-20+) entrees, however it never delivered that, "I must come back and have that again."  
















We decided to eat at this restaurant last night as a number of us had heard positive reviews about the food. However, we were very disappointed with the service that we received. It seemed right from the start that we were an inconvenient rather than a customer.
We ordered a few beers and after 10 minutes of waiting we could see they had been poured but not been brought over. When we requested them they were brought over with a sarcastic remark mentioning the fact we had only waited a few minutes for our drinks and they we should be prepared for a longer wait for our food!! The starters arrived and in fairness they were very good. Then the waiter came up after our starters to enquire if everything was ok. This, under normal circumstances would be a nice touch, but as the conversation continued it took an unexpected turn. He started to accuse us of continuing to watch the owner/chiefs cook the food and more or less implied it would be ready when it was ready.
At this point I wanted to leave but the rest of the table wanted stay for the main course. When it did arrive they brought me the wrong pizza. I complained and the waiter apologised and took it away. Low and behold 5 minutes later a new pizza arrived but upon closer inspection all that had been done was the previous toppings were removed and the correct ingredients put on top. Clearly it had been put in the oven and heated again but this left a burnt edge and cold centre!!!
In fairness the owner/manager came up to apologise and took the service charge and reduced the bill for us but the whole episode was poor from start to finish. My friends say the food was good. Unfortunately I cannot confirm this as I ended up not having a main course!! 
Went yesterday with my girlfriend before theatre. The atmosphere is nice but felt rushed by the staff (who defintely need to learn to smile). Also they insisted we BOTH had to either order off the a la carte menu or theatre menu which I felt was unreasonable. Food was nice but slightly salty. My girlfriends main course of corn fed chicken came with chillis which was also not mentioned on the menu -fortunately it wasnt too hot to handle. Bit surprised reviews believe this was a place value for money as I felt this restaurant was definitely overpriced based on my experience. In total we ordered one pasta,one corn fed chicken and one salad as a main (would have cost £13 as a starter so upgraded to main at £16),and 2 soft drinks for a total of £78 including service. Dont think i'll be coming back ever again. 
I went to Bacco restaurant in Holborn, reviews sounded good, and the food and service lived up to them. Very helpful, attentive & friendly staff, even when it got busy in mid-evening. Lovely menu and great food. For all four of us, no wrong notes at all. Lovely fresh pasta in particular. Will definitely go again. 
This little place, over the last two years, has become THE place where myself and my partner go when friends are in town, when we want to celebrate something or simply when we want some good food. The owner, Julian (whom we met in Turkey on holiday), is a lovely man with a great way with his customers. He makes sure that the place is run well, so when he isn't in, you will miss his chat but the good service will remain. The food is of a very high level, especially for what you pay, and you can tell that the recipes are not just on the day but are tried and tested. On the top of that the sauces taste as if they have been slow cooked throughout the day, holding serious depth of flavour. Il Castelletto is a quaint place, with a great owner, great food at a cheap price and is in a great location. 
Quite impressed with this Italian Restaurant, visited first Thursday in May.
Colleague had a veal escalope and spaghetti with napolitana sauce. I had a medium rare sirloin with chips and side of spinach. Staek and spinach juicy, chips very good. The red wine Peppoli a winner, followed by a good barbera by the glass. mellow pannacotta and double expresso.
The service was nice, surroundings modern, pricing fairer than many Italians that lard the bill with cover charge, service charge, dear sides etc.
It is not up its own backside with trendy faffing and mini dishes, or little amuse bouches and a huge bill. It gets on with delivering traditional trattoria cooking well.
And we ate and talked for nearly three hours in an increasingly full place without that silly nonsense to leave within two hours.
The food was wonderful and the staff were attentive, but not overly pushy for us to leave. A lovely afternoon, despite the wind howling outside! Great deal well worth it. 
Amore is excellent. Great selection of main courses although choice of starters could b extended. Service is excellent!!...
Family run business with great service and waiters/waitresses full of chat and comedy! Highly recommended!! Repeated customer! 
Recently enjoyed a beautiful meal at Bar Italia so much so the taste still lingers in my memory. Well done to the chef who prepared the Ravioli with Gorgonzola sauce. Beautifully cooked and a delicious combination. The staff were courteous and delightful as well thankyou for making my meal wonderful. 
We had an awful dining experience in Bar Napoli tonight.
We were in there about three hours trying to have a quick meal having arrived at 7.30pm but not being served our main course until after 10pm.
Upon being seated we ordered bruscetta which never arrived. Our starters took an hour to arrive. We ordered a second round of drinks which were forgotten about.
We were then brought different drinks without being consulted, as they had run out of the drinks we ordered.
Our main course was another hour and one of the dishes was wrong. One member of our party had to leave because she was so hungry.
This completely took over our evening, when we originally had other plans for after the meal.
Of course the waiter was aware of the situation, but at the end of our meal we brought this to the attention of the manager, who said there was nothing he could do as we had not told him earlier so it must have been fine.
He explained that most other people had a good experience that evening and that sometimes things go wrong for some tables and we just have to accept that.
He didn’t say sorry or acknowledge that it was unacceptable. He had a complete disregard for customer service and didn’t care that we’d had a bad evening. AVOID AVOID AVOID BAR NAPOLI. I will not be returning and I will be actively advising others to do the same. 
 The food here was delicious!! 
We visited this restaurant 5 times over 4 days on our holidays. Food was excellent and service very friendly even although it was very very busy. We waited 20 minutes to get in. Our 3 children were made to feel special by the manageress (blond girl) and they had little packs to keep them entertained.
We will definitely recommend them to our friends who are visiting soon. 
This branch of ASK Italian offers a variety of pizzas, pastas and other Italian cuisine freshly made daily.
This cosy little neighbourhood restaurant is easily missed as you walk along one of the less salubrious stretches of Easter Road – an uninspiring frontage with frosted windows doesn’t exactly motivate passersby. However, enough people have seen beyond…
There’s something of a Giuliano’s theme to this stretch of Union Street, with the original restaurant, the takeaway next door and this incarnation, Al Fresco, just a few doors down. Try and get a table before a show at the Playhouse opposite, however…
This vast contemporary Italian themed restaurant complete with pastoral photographs, high domed roof and colourfully lit ceiling art opened in the summer of 2011 and is already bustling. From the restaurant family that includes DiMaggio’s and Café…
Takeaway review An expansion of L'Alba d'Oro, the fish and chip ship next door famed for a menu and extensive wine list that tosses up combinations like crocodile and chips washed down with a bottle of Krug, Anima also goes beyond the conventional…
wned by the same people who run the neighbouring Rapido, Asti is a refined, relaxed eatery in comparison to its neighbour, specialising in decent Italian dishes rather than fast food. Painted a pleasing shade of mocha, this café-cum-restaurant takes…
Celebrating its 31st birthday this year, Bar Roma remains the consummate family run, and family friendly, Italian restaurant. This is a large, bustling, brightly lit place – and while they’re more than happy to cater to couples, this is a perfect venue…
Found just down the road from the Edinburgh train station, right in the heart of the city centre, Bella Italia Edinburgh Northbridge is ideal for great value Italian meals.
Part of the well known Bella Italia restaurant group with outlets throughout the UK, the restaurant is great for all kinds of diners, be it couples, families or groups of friends. The children's menu offers plenty of options for the little ones such as Sophie's Spaghetti Bolognese or Meatballs and Mash.
As for the adults, the extensive menu features a good range of dishes such as the chargrilled salmon served with roasted new potatoes, green beans and tomato and olive salsa or the ham and rocket Italian pizza. An all Italian wine list also accompanies the food nicely.
Chef/owner Giovanni Cariello clearly loves his little Haymarket restaurant. Warmth and comfort pervade, despite the stiff Mackintosh furniture and the elbows-to-neighbours intimacy of the place. It feels rustic and convivial, augmented by the charm and efficiency of the tailored service. Authentic is a word bandied about far too much, but it fits with many aspects of La Bruschetta, including, remarkably, the bruschetta itself. The Popolare is uncomplicated and delicious, with ripe tomatoes, oregano, great olive oil and bread seasoned and toasted to form an honest, appetising appetiser. Of the antipasti, prosciutto and parmigiano with rocket could be less crowded by sun-dried tomatoes, capers and radicchio. However, lobster-stuffed Agnalotti is superb, with just-so pasta and intensely flavoured filling. Vegetarians may feel somewhat marginalised by the secondi, which comprise steaks, veal and chicken in various guises, and fish simply cooked, as it should be. Dolci show the same combination of honesty and skill, and are only let down by more irrelevent touches: slices of green, acidic kiwi are not able to enhance the silky sweetness of a fine pannacotta. Still, this is a proper, honest-to-goodness ristorante Italiano that meets the expectations of those who have dined out in Napoli.
Tucked away behind the Cameo Bar in Leith, it’s easy to pass the small entrance to the Café Domenico by. Don’t make this mistake, though, as, housed in this tiny bistro with its eclectic decorations, scattered wall tiles and red and white check tablecloths, is a gloriously simple and satisfying menu and a genuinely warm welcome. Space is at a premium here, but the L-shaped room doesn’t feel over-crowded, instead giving the place the air of a dinner party at a well-heeled bohemian’s flat. Specials change regularly, and sometimes more frequently than the listings on the blackboard do, but can include some classy arancini, golden and crisp on the outside and filled with a garlicky ragu, and plenty of melted cheese. There’s a strong range of pasta dishes available, meaning that you can choose between the surprisingly light and spring-like penne with cheese, asparagus and spinach, or pile straight into a full-on spicy sausage, red pepper and cream sauce that genuinely packs some heat. Either way, try to leave enough room for the homemade brownie – a rich, chewy treat.
Forget Ikea: this is where you’ll find the best meatballs in town. They're more of a hearty sausage shape than a ball here: get them cut up in pasta or squeezed into a ciabatta for a chin-dripping panini – but whatever you do, get them. With just a couple of pretty unexciting cakes and traybakes on offer, it’s the savoury that shines here. There are some serious sandwich options on offer: chicken escalope, frittata, an arm’s-length list of meats and cheeses, but whatever you choose, you can bet the basic ingredients will be fresh and filled with flavour. Pasta and firm, smooth gnocchi combinations change daily, though are generally based on the Italian pillars of tomatoes that actually taste of tomato, fresh basil and roughly torn, stringy mozzarella. Like the coffee sourced from Italian Aroma, this is a Scottish company using traditional Italian methods to produce consistently excellent results.
Il Castello takes its name from Edinburgh’s best-known landmark, which towers over this compact, split-level restaurant in the city's busy theatre-land. They have been feeding hungry theatre-goers here since 1991, from a menu that reads as a long list of the usual antipasti, breads, soups, pizzas, pastas, risottos and main plates of meat and fish. While long menus can be a sign of a jack-of-all-trades approach, Il Castello gets around this by serving clever alternative options of the same ingredients. A starter of Macheroni Mare e Monti involves large tubes of pasta served with clams and asparagus in a tomato and garlic sauce. The macheroni is also available in other sauces involving artichokes, prawns and chicken. A main of agnello arosto – roasted fillet of lamb served with a white wine, garlic and rosemary sauce – comes with chips that have all the hallmarks of frozen cater-pack standard and a small, plain salad on the side, but what it lacks in finesse it makes up for in flavour. Again, the lamb can come cooked in two other ways. The premises have had a freshen-up recently and are light and modern. The food is almost the opposite, but somehow reassuringly so.
Divino is the charming, seductive brother to fun-loving sister restaurant Vittoria upstairs. Pretty well hidden under George IV Bridge, this wine bar and restaurant combines candle-lit romance with cutting-edge wine gadgetry. In its strictest sense, an enoteca is a wine repository – Divino prefers library – aimed at allowing tourists to try a region’s wares and buy their favourites. Divino fulfils both demands with their hundreds-strong Italian wine list, 42 of which come by the glass, and a discount on off-licence purchases. Particularly clever are the Enomatic wine dispensers, keeping tasting bottles at optimum condition under inert gas, and their ‘wine flights’, whereby you travel Italy’s regions via tasting glasses. Food is based on good, DOP Italian ingredients, which can include marinated cheeses and truffled salamis rarely found in Edinburgh. Between four and seven pm is cicchetti time, which means as many little bites of antipasti as you like for £1.
Owned by Ida Scarano nee Crolla, of the Leith Walk dining dynasty who run Vittoria’s next door and La Favorita down the road, it almost goes without saying that Eatalia’s is a dependable local takeaway joint. The menu was refreshed in March 2011 and features all the ingredients of a versatile fish and chip shop, including an extensive line in deep-fried foods (puddings, spring rolls, sausages, chicken pakora, kiev, halved or quartered) topped off with a battered haddock that’s full and flavoursome, if ever so slightly greasy. Almost fifty pizzas (the speciality Eatalia’s comes with rocket leaves, gorgonzola and parma ham; the bases are thin and crispy) and pastas are complemented by the likes of chicken wings, cheese stuffed jalapeno peppers and a special mozzarella-topped bruschetta that has apparently featured on the BBC’s Take On the Takeaway.
This understated, grown-up wine bar has been calmly getting it right for over a decade. The bottles that line the walls are laid out intuitively in the wine list, and there’s a reassuringly generous hand with the advice and the tasting glasses if you’re not confident in navigating it (or even if you are). Prices are impressively democratic, with drinkability guaranteed right down to the cheapest glass. A short, simple menu offers food reliant on tried and tested Mediterranean ingredients – the tiny kitchen behind the bar is stocked with everything a good antipasti board needs. Chorizo, good cheeses, fresh basil and Serrano ham run through the salads, spaghettis and risottos, while a specials board rings the seasonal changes. Surrounded by glinting mirrors and rich leather, with good wine and the freshest of ingredients to hand, it’s easy to see how this compact bar has weathered the competition.
Not for nothing does owner Tony Crolla boast that La Favorita offers 'the best pizza in Edinburgh'. His tasty, log-fired pizzas have become his calling card, arriving at your door with as much flavour and zing as you'd expect from its restaurant counterpart. Their Vesuvio arrives oozing tomato, mozzarella, spicy sausage, chicken, peppers and jalapeños, while other staples such as their bruschetta manage to retain a succulent garlicky kick, without turning soggy in transit. Pastas are probably best left for the full dining-in experience but you wonder why anybody would veer away from their plentiful pizza menu anyway when, whisper it now, Mr Crolla has a point.
The busy Grassmarket area attracts a mix of tourists, revellers and locals, and the same can be said of this family-run establishment. It claims to offer a true taste of Italy, and that starts from the moment you are greeted by one of a clutch of waiters with accents as strong as Gennaro's espresso. Tables in the front dining area enjoy the buzz of the venue, while the atmosphere in the rear section is slightly more subdued. Antipasti feature classic Italian dishes such as caprese, a whole buffalo mozzarella with the usual tomato and basil accompaniment, or select from a range of bruschetta – the capangnola is a delicious mix of peppers, olives and capers served cold on warm toast. Alongside pizzas and pasta, other traditional options populate the list of main courses, with vitello saltimbocca that ticks all the boxes, or a mildly spicy chicken diavolo. Meat dishes are served with chips and a rather limited salad, which is overpowered by celery. Desserts feature a chilled lemon or orange filled with ice-cream that is a refreshingly light finale, or you could go native and choose the tartufo classico, a zabaglione centre coated with chocolate that is loyal to its Italian roots.
Situated directly across the road from the Playhouse Theatre, Giuliano’s has achieved Edinburgh institution status due to its popularity with theatre-goers, tourists and large parties – including hen and stag dos. Its cavernous interior is resplendent with Romanesque statues, checked table clothes and pictures of the Italian countryside. The menu is also traditional and vast – if you can think of a typical Italian restaurant dish, it’ll probably be there. Peppers stuffed with a rice and vegetable mix and topped with parmesan is not a bad way to start and a little bit more successful than a tomato, avocado and mozzarella salad, which depends too much on the quality of the ingredients. A salad starter, however, leaves room for a decent Della Casa pizza that's crispy on the outside and juicy in the middle. Red meat lovers can opt for one of a selection of steaks, which come well cooked although disappointingly accompanied by watery mash and lacklustre veg. The dessert menu is endless with plenty of ice-cream based options to please the kids, including banana split, while adults might enjoy a decent poached pear in a red wine sauce or a sweet amaretto crepe, unusually accompanied by fresh strawberries as well as vanilla ice-cream.
Gordon Scott is keen to promote his restaurant as a family venue. And there is no risk that he will fall foul of the trade descriptions act, with brother Gary imparting his profound industry knowledge, daughters Daniela and Vanessa now involved in the business and niece Giulia adding a real Italian flavour. After more than 25 years, Gordon's has acquired a loyal following that ensures the winter is almost as hectic as the peak season, when regulars jostle with tourists for tables both inside and out in the High Street. Like the slightly dated décor, the menu appears to have undergone little change over quarter of a century. Mushrooms stuffed with salmon and deep-fried in breadcrumbs deviate slightly from the norm, but alternative starters include a hearty minestrone that is loyal to tradition. Milanese is a substantial offering of another established dish, and risotto marinara combines a mountain of rice with a cocktail of seafood. If there is room, profiteroles live up to gooey expectations. But don't be daunted: half or even quarter portions are available for smaller appetites – after all, this is a family establishment.
Decor is lovely and we ate at a table tucked into the corner so it was not too noisy though wouldn't be so happy about eating at the long bar. A member of our party had a discount card which made the final bill very reasonable for what we had. We asked to swap spaghetti for penne pasta in one of the dishes and they were happy to do that. Food was tasty and the wine was good for the price.
Gusto is a superb restaurant on George Street. It offers a fun, dynamic dining experience coupled with tasty food, friendly service and a stunning setting. I have been a number of times and sampled many of the dishes on the menu from pizza to pasta - steaks to seafood. I think the pizzas are beautifully crisp and authentic - not the usual stodge you can sometimes come across. Perhaps thin crispy bases with ample toppings are not to everyone's taste but I think their pizzas are, for want of a better word, "elegant".
The pastas and risottos have always been perfectly seasoned and cooked as has the seafood. One of the things that stands out most about this restaurant is that the staff seem to truly enjoy work - always smiling and more than happy to help with any enquiry. I would definitely recommend Gusto to anyone who is looking for more than just a meal!
This place is so noisy with clatter and chatter that it's almost like being in a nightclub. It's not my idea of an enjoyable meal to have to shout in the ear of the person next to me. Eating downstairs here is stressful and harassed, and feels more like an ordeal than an enjoyable experience. There are more intimate tables on the top level, which provided it's not too crowded, would be a much better place to eat.
As if the ambience wasn't bad enough, the food was lazy and skimped on ingredients, and was distinctly un-Italian in style and quality. The pizzas especially, were dire - hard to believe they can't even get pizzas right when they represent about a third of their menu. More akin to something you'd get in a motorway service station. If this place was in Italy it would go out of business straight away. I don't recommend it.
The appeal of this restaurant is skin deep. Two lovely tubbed olive trees welcome you as you enter this clattery but attractive restaurant. However, it all goes wrong when the food arrives, or at least it did for my party who endured the dry floury pizzas that couldn't even hold their own against Pizza Hut. Probably the worst pizza I've ever had the misfortune to eat that didn't come out of a freezer. My brother's steak was dry and accompanied by pre-cut bag chips. On a positive note, the wine was of good quality and so it should be at that price. There's plenty of crap Italian restaurants in Edinburgh but they're not usually this crap.
This small basement restaurant shows promising will to put the mediocre high-street Italian chains in their place by bringing original dishes and quality produce to Stockbridge village. A relationship with the community is evident with their sourcing of meat and fish from locals Bowers and Armstrongs and a fortnightly takeaway stall at Stockbridge's Sunday market. The atmosphere at the restaurant is buzzy yet not crowded, in a room that has eschewed gingham tablecloths in favour of smart wood and leather furnishings. Starters include a steaming bowl of mussels in a flavourful broth of lemon, parsley and black pepper, but it’s worth trying their daily changing ravioli to see what they can do with fresh pasta. Pizzas are also a cut above, with some unusual toppings such as mussels and wild mushrooms. The perfectly cooked dough of the calzone yields a stuffing of broccoli, Italian sausage and two cheeses, while ribeye steak comes with an interesting fried potato hash with spring onion, Scamorza cheese and egg. For dessert, chocolate fudge ice cream will please children but adults can enjoy the more sophisticated saffron poached pears paired with strong hard cheese.
I arrived in Edinburgh Friday night and after settling into my hotel on the Royal Mile, made my way around town on foot with my wife in tow.
I made my way to the part of town called Stockbridge which is like a town within the City Centre to attend a meeting. It was with great delight, both of us ate at this restaurant, after having it recomended by our associate. The service was laid back but suitable for the atmosphere , but the food was outstanding. We both had pasta to start followed by the rack of lamb and the steak then homemade ice cream. Finished of a lovely day in Edinburgh. Back to London the day after.
Excellent local Italian. The standard pizza and pasta are good and don't taste like generic products. The prawns and the asparagus are particularly good starters. Last time I was there one of the party raved about their four cheese ravioli and the Hare Papardelle was fantastic. They've currently a midweek offer of a pasta a pizza and a bottle of house wine for £20. With the aforementioned starters that totalled £30 - better by quality and price than the packed Pizza Express across the road. The menu says the fish and meat are sourced locally - Armstrongs and Bowers of Stockbridge respectively.
A bright red sign pronouncing the restaurant's whereabouts cheerfully stands out amid Elm Row's other established businesses, beckoning in passers-by from the bustle of the town centre. The interior is dark and slightly worn by contrast, but incoming diners are greeted cheerfully by a moustached Mona Lisa and pleasant staff. Owner Vito Alongi can be seen flitting between tables, attending to those who need service or simply greeting regulars – of which there are many; a joking altercation over a favoured table is a pleasant sight. The lunch deal may be the reason for their loyalty, as three courses can be devoured for a meagre £5.30, and this menu is changed weekly. Log-fired pizza bases and unusual pasta shells in the main course stand out amid traditional toppings and sauces, although the dessert and starters are pretty standard. The a la carte menu verges on the large side, and can be a little confusing for those who find a wealth of choice impossible, though the dessert selection is a little average by comparison. Then again, after a particularly filling main lunch dish, dessert may be the furthest thing from your mind.
The friendly staff are the high point of this restaurant as the food and decor sadly lets it down. I had to send my starter back as it was inedible with prawns that were off and very overcooked calamari that was swimming in olive oil and a watery sauce that made the bread so soggy it disintegrated. The main was no better! A gristly overcooked steak that was swimming in oil and another horrible watery sauce with peas like bullets. I can understand lower quality if the price reflects it but this was awful. Never again will I return or recommend this place. Plenty of other cracking italian restaurants in Edinburgh within a couple minutes walk of this place.
Judging on the form of the waiting staff and the chef, the Jolly ain't so jolly no more. Our starters were uncooked (garlic bread and unmelted cheese!) after ordering, the mains came 40 minutes later in two lots, and about 5 mins apart. Only about 1/3 full there's no excuse for the poor service. Pizzas were doughy which isn't what u expect from the Jolly and the pasta was luke warm. Our first complaint was ignored, the second at the end brought a 50% reduction on the bill which did nothing to save a chronic night which was my dad's 65th birthday. There's plenty of other decent Italians in town, body swerve this dive.
Great welcome, the food was great,the house wine was good. We had a lovely meal here, it was reasonably priced, and the music was nostalgic to say the least - Madonna's entire back catalogue gave us a laugh!
I cannot believe anyone enjoys this place. Cheap and cheerful? Well its definately cheap but the taste of the food confirms this. Starters are a throw back from the 80's, look and taste awful. The pasta was over powering with garlic that I could taste it for hours afterwards. The bacon was frozen cubes that were full of water. Myself and my boyfriend barely ate anything that was put infront of us. The music - Chirpy Chirpy Cheep Cheep and YMCA?? We felt we were are a kids party.It couldnt have been any cheesier. The chef obviously does not know what italian cusine should taste like. And for everyone that says how great the pizzas are. Well of course they will be great - To sprinkle some cheese and mushrooms over a dough and pop it in a lovely woodburning oven - what a hard job for any chef to do????????? Dissapointed is an understatement. If you are going to go to the trouble of spending some money on a night out iand looking to dine italian cuisine - in this current economic climate - sdont waste your money and stay clear of this place: Im sure for a few extra few pounds a head you could at least get something that is you can eat, tastes italian, without the kids part music, and not walk away feeling you have been ripped of!
Jolly is one of the best kept secrets in Edinburgh. I go to Jolly regularly, to meet friends in a welcoming and home-like place, to cheer myself up after a hard day or to celebrate a good news. Is it just about the food? No. Yes the pizzas are perfect and I tend to flex the menu a bit now- it hasn't changed in many moons so I'll customise it when I make my order (who else allows you that?!) - Portions are large enough to see you through a few hours of relaxed entertainment, the house wine is a must... but ... what really sets this place way above any other Italian restaurant in Edinburgh is the fact that you can feel among friends. Vito, absolutely magic, gets to know you, teases you out of a bad mood and genuinely participate in the celebrations you bring in. This is an honest, wholesome New Town treasure, and if you are not just visiting, one to become part of your weekly routine. P.s. lots of famous Edinburgh people can be seen here especially on week nights.
Hanover Street is home to several other restaurants but perhaps none as long-standing as family-run La Lanterna. Since 1982, vivacious hostess Toni Zaino has welcomed diners into the wood-panelled basement, decorated with candles and rose-shaped cushions. There’s a relaxed and intimate feel to the dining area, where you can bop your head to Toni’s retro stereo selections. Southern Italian dishes from the Zaino’s home territory south of Naples feature on the menu. Soft tomato chunks dotted with basil rest on garlic-rubbed crostini. Large calamari rings with crisp, battered shells are paired with velvety tartare sauce. The linguini mare arrives in a tinfoil package. Opened, it releases a tantalising aroma of clams, mussels and prawns steamed in marinara sauce. A dessert of baked cheese cake, rich and springy, comes with a light raspberry coulis. House wines, both from Abruzzo, are generous litre bottles. Together with Toni, staff ensure your dining experience is a jovial one.
I am very sad to read this review and a little curious why Katy decided to write this a few years after she said she had a bad meal.
My name is Toni and I have owned La Lanterna for the last 28years. Unfortunately I had rented it to someone else for 5 years and I am saddened to say he did not run the restaurant the way I had and then he closed the door. I could not bear to see my restaurant closed so I have come out of retirement since July 2009, when it was another 6 weeks before I could reopen the door. We cleaned ,painted replaced broken equipment and slowly by being here all day am rebuilding the good name of La Lanterna, but with the recession and reviews not
reflecting what truly is La Lanterna now. It is very difficult. Iam sure that if anyone cares to come to La Lanterna they will not be disappointed. 
I can't speak highly enough of this place. It's lovely to walk into a restaurant and feel totally at home. Food is tasty, the service is excellent too. Its a lovely, friendly atmosphere and perfect for groups or even the lone diner! will always go back. its a little gem of a place!
The restaurant formerly known as Bella Mbriana continues to choose the road less travelled by and offer what they describe as a genuine Italian experience as opposed to the more anglicised fare available elsewhere. Tucked around the corner from Broughton Street, it’s ideally placed to capitalise on the area’s foodie reputation and the growing appetite for authentic, locally sourced food. Owners, Maria and Rosario Sartore, avoid what they call the British-Italian cliches of lasagne and garlic bread. Instead, the menu is a tempting mix of the known and the new, offering delicate starters such as shallow fried courgette flowers with a honey and chilli dip, as well as a more substantial Provolone fondue with a chilli honey bruschetta. The focus of the mains is firmly on fish, with even a fusion of paccheri pasta, olive oil, garlic, kale and ricotta receiving a dressing of anchovy oil. If you fancy something more overtly marine, the Scialatielle pasta with courgettes, cannellini beans and clams is a rich and creamy, if slightly gritty, alternative. Rich the mains may be, but don’t let that stop you trying the homemade panna cotta for dessert.
Was recommended this restaurant by fellow foodies around the Scottish circuit. Was delighted to hear they do a 2 course lunch for only £9.75 (coffee included) which in retrospect is absolutely nothing for the quality, fresh produce and service my wife and I received today. The surroundings are ambient and relaxing with a menu that will soak the appetite. I learned today it was awarded an AA rosette and nominated for several other awards which in my opinion are well deserved. I’ve eaten in many Italian restaurants around Scotland and do love the classic dishes but their seafood and alternate, original dishes on offer really make this one stand out from the rest. Glad to have ticked off this hidden gem and shall defo be visiting again..Soon.
I ate recently at Locanda De Gusti with my family. We eat out regularly and I was informed that Locanda was not only great quality food but also reasonable prices. I was not disappointed and personally having an avid love of fish the produce was incredibly fresh and cooked to perfection - try the scallops! The rest of my family thoroughly enjoyed the meal and the service provided, with a friendly atmosphere and attentive staff I will definitely be returning!
I visited Locanda on a wednesday evening and the atmosphere was tremendous, busy restaurant with a real sense of enjoyment about the place. I had the mixed grilled seafood and finished with a home-made tiramisu. Its a bonus when a restaurant makes their own desserts. Locanda De Gusti is one of the best restaurants i visited this year.
Been out to loads of restaurants in Edinburgh in the past year, and the standard is always pretty good. You usually get what you pay for in Edinburgh. I think Mamma's may be the exception to the rule though, we got way more in terms of service, atmosphere, buzz and overall experience than we've experienced in quite a while. The restaurant itself is compact and quirky, the music was cool and unobtrusive, but the food itself was way beyond what we had expected when we nipped in for a casual pizza. The base was just top class, fresh and crispy and crumbly and delicious. Top Marks. The waitress was excellent, offering up genuine personality and warmth, as were her colleagues, you just got a sense that they all enjoyed being there which is quite unusual. Our sides and salads were also top notch and the bill was surprisingly low. We will definitely make it our business to come back again and again. Well done to all at Mamma's, keep up the good work!!
With a warm welcome from the Stornaiuolo family, this corner venue in Morningside is everything anyone could want in a neighbourhood restaurant. One thing certain is that you could never get bored of the menu – despite a short à la carte selection, the list of daily specials is so long you’ll have trouble remembering them as they’re read out. Fish and seafood dominate so expect revived classics such as tender lemon sole goujons with homemade tartare sauce, or scallops the size of gobstoppers paired with black pudding. Clam linguine is exemplary, and the chef will accommodate to taste by adding fresh chilli. Pizzas from the main menu are enormous, with a doughier Neapolitan rather than crispy Roman-style base. Topping combinations are old favourites, such as Parma ham with rocket and parmesan, or artichoke, ham and egg on their eponymous version. Desserts are a mixture of family-friendly and sophisticated – the ‘Coppa Cioccolato’ is their take on an ice cream sundae, and the pannacotta is perfectly wobbly, with fresh raspberries complementing the creaminess. Listen to stories of the ‘nonnas’ (grandmothers) that inspired this cooking and you’ll soon feel part of the family.
The previous restaurants which occupied this spot (and there have been a lot of them) have traditionally always been pretty dire, so when yet another new place popped up in this location we were quite sceptical. When it first opened, it seemed to be packed to the rafters every night, which we at first thought was probably due to a bit of a honeymoon period with people keen to try out the new place. However, a month or so later it was still heaving every time we looked, so we decided we should give it a whirl ourselves.
What can I say? One of the best meals I've had in Edinburgh, without a doubt, and a thoroughly pleasant dining experience to go along with it. Having had a good look at the menu online before I went, I thought I'd already decided what to order, but I wasn't prepared for the huge list of seafood specials which were expertly reeled off to us by our waiter. In the end I opted for the famous scallops with black pudding, followed by the crab linguine from the specials board. My dining partner ordered the mozzarella and tomato salad, followed by a pepperoni pizza.
The scallops were cooked to perfection and although they were the priciest starter on the menu, they were absolutely worth it. The crab linguine was superb, too. Often crabmeat can be a little too fishy or taste like it's come out of a tin (even if it hasn't), but this was just delicious. Now that I know how well they do seafood, I'll definitely be back to try some more of the fish choices. But this is not just a place for fish lovers: the pizza and pasta were also brilliant and I can't wait to work my way through those too. Something tells me I'll be back here rather a lot!
Our only gripe was that a pint of beer cost almost a fiver, which my boyfriend hadn't thought to check before he ordered two of them. However, given that Pizza Express charges around the same amount for their large bottles of Peroni, we can probably forgive them for that.
Well done, Nonna's, for bringing Morningside just what it needed. I hope you stay put longer than your predecessors!
I had a meal at Nonna's on Friday night with my mum and we were both very impressed. The restaurant is really lovely inside, very modern with a minimalist look, very different from The Patio.
We didn't have starters but I chose the Ravioli al'Ortolano which was amazing. My mum chose the Gamberoni Thermador which I have to say was even better than my dish (because I had quite a few tastes). The king prawns were succulent and the sauce was totally delicious. I honestly cannot stop thinking about this dish and must go back soon to have my own portion.
For dessert we shared a tiramisu. Now I have eaten a lot of tiramisu in my time, some delicious ones, but I think this was the best of the lot. The portion wasn't enormous (which was good) but I could easily have eaten a whole one for myself.
All in all, really friendly and efficient service too, lovely ambience. It was also very busy, we hadn't booked but luckily a table for two was available for an hour or so. I would advise to definitely book as the restaurant isn't enormous.
Definitely a place I shall be going back to soon and one of the best meals I've eaten recently.
Papoli really is a little gem. Outside, the Haymarket traffic rumbles by, while inside its dinky dining room is a retreat of warm orange and yellow pendant lighting hanging low. Prints of Provence (perhaps?) and Greece hint at the culinary offering but Italian is dominant with plenty pasta and pizza for takeaway too. The keenly priced set meals, unsurprisingly popular with local business lunchers and loyal diners, encourage exploration of influences from around the Mediterranean. Start with a Portobello mushroom in cheesy cream and bacon sauce, or the house special North African lamb shorba soup, a poor man’s premise of chick peas and pasta made rich in a revelry of coriander, cinnamon, chilli and mint. For mains, Parma ham and pecorino-wrapped pan-fried chicken comes with a just-right potato bake while the herb and nut frittata comes as three mini-omelettes enlivened with sweet peas and sour berries. Desserts include tiramisu – a luscious vortex of brandy and vanilla – and home-crafted warm apple and cinnamon sponge cake typical of the conscientiously high standard of cooking at Papoli.
A friend recommended Papoli and said she had the best Italian food there that she'd ever had. It's a really small place, and looks like more of a cafe than a restaurant, but very clean and well presented.
You can eat pretty cheaply here. I've had the chicken breast with rosemary, pancetta and pecorino so many times now, because it's so solid and full of flavour.
I agree with all the other reviews that Papoli is really welcoming. I think the owner/manager is an absolutely lovely man and always greets and serves everyone warmly.
Enjoyed dinner at Papoli recently with two friends. We ate from the A La Carte menu with two (extra matured) steaks and the fillet of sea bass for the mains. This was preceded with a shared portion of the tagliatelle carbonara with bruschetta. All were truly excellent. No room for sweet, but the latte I had to finish was the best I had had for ages. For what we had the price was very reasonable. Would have no hesitation in recommending to anyone who fancies italo-mediterannean food in unpretentious surroundings.
Had lunch in Papoli last week, £6.90 for 3 courses, I would have been happy paying double that. Lovely, fresh chicken and noodle soup was a great start. The main of lamb cutlets with tomato pasta was lovely, meat fell of the bone. Best of all was the summer fruit cheesecake, appeared to be homemade. Great little restaurant that deserves to suceed. Offers far better food than most of the "bog standard" Italians in Edinburgh.
I ate at Papoli just last week and can't find anything but good stuff to say about it.
I travel for business and eat alone alot, some places don't make you feel comfortable doing that but Papoli couldn't do enough to ensure I was happy. While I was eating there was a family group celebrating something, and a couple of young guys (students maybe), and they were all made equally welcome. That's the joy of a smallish restaurant, everyone feels special!
The menu is simple but has enough variation that you'll definitely find something to taste. I ate a delicious Chicken Shorba Soup (a light broth with chickpeas and noodles), a scrummy Greek Salad (tasty fresh lemon and olive oil dressing, plenty of olives and feta) and a huge Seeded Flatbread (too much for me alone). With a homemade lemonade and a coffee the bill came to a little over £10 which is unbelievable (in London you get a sandwich and a coffee for that!).
Although I didn't sample any of it this time (I will be back here!), the main courses I saw - and smelled - appeared delicious, especialy the pizzas; which I noticed they are already doing a roaring trade of take-away's in.
Eat here once, and I'm sure that you'll go back again and again!
We have eaten here for over 20 years, firstly as Pizza Primo the best hot and spicy pizza, with extra chillies. in the world! now as a restaurant the food is fresh, local, beautifully cooked and well presented. Farah's mussel linguini is a real treat and her chicken pie is the perfect winter comfort food. Farah and Paris are the most fantastic hosts, we have never felt so welcome anywhere in the world.
Named after a mythological maiden who died of heartache on the Bay of Naples, La Partenope offers a taste of Napoli on Dalry Road. This family restaurant is operated by a sibling trio: chef Paolo creates magnificent dishes, brother Renato is the welcoming manager and sister Sandra makes desserts. Such closeness is apparent in this cheerful restaurant, modelled on a coastal bay, where wooden fish hang from the ceiling and a ship’s wheel is mounted on the wall. Seafood is the speciality, delivered fresh each day: try the juicy, flavoursome platter of lightly grilled langoustines, scallops, swordfish, tuna and tiger prawns. Starters include a fondue-like provola dei poveri, where the cheese is melted in a garlic and oregano tomato sauce and comes with fresh bread on the side. A ricotta and pear tart has a rich filling and tender crust. For those on a budget, La Partenope offers an outstanding daily lunch menu of three courses for £7.95.
The wife and I popped in around 5pm on Saturday 17th Nov. 2012. We were asked if we had booked, which we hadn't, we were then shown to our table and offered a "menu" which was a A4 sheet of pastic covered paper which was covered in food and had seen better days. The menu was overpriced and offered a very limited selection. The only reason we decided to stay was that the Rugby and Football had just finished and the other restaurants were quite busy . While we waited for our starter the seating area began to fill with smoke from the kitchen, not a slight waft or a pleasant aroma from cooking but a kinda " I just burnt your food" smell, this coupled with the very dim lighting did not make for a pleasant experience. The menu we were offered was also way overpriced and not that exciting or tasty. I have never felt the need to give my opinion on a restaurant before but if reading this prevents a least one couple not making the same mistake as we did then it will have been worthwhile. Oh, just a quick question to finish with, is it acceptable to charge £6 for a bottle of beer ? one pound more than the glass of wine my wife had. Just read some of the other reviews and it seems like 2 different restaurants ! Pizza ? Melted cheese on sausage ? Nowt like that on our "cafe stlye" menu, in short won't be back
Just wanted to say thanks to this place for making our night...The service was top class and all the italian waiters were friendly and well presented. We were recommended a lovely wine by one of the waiters and it went down VERY well with our dinner... I had the Italian Sausages with melted cheese over the top of them and they were cooked to perfection. My friends had seafood pasta, pizza and steak..all these meals (apart from the pizza) came with vegetables, yummy roast potatoes and salad. The food was to a very high standard and the prices were affordable. The final bill was roughly £160 for 4 people.. Some might think its a bit steep, however we did drink quiet alot of wine between 4 people...Didnt have desert cause there was not enough room after thier generous portion sizes from the main course. I most certainly would recommend this place to anyone who asks..it is clean, the food and wine is devine, friendly waiters, good vibe and a classy place to enjoy a night out with mates..or family.
My friend and I ate at La Partenope last week and the food was divine. I had the scallops and my friend had the seafood platter. The chef (and owner) made me something specially that was not on the menu for me. We found the staff to be friendly and the atmosphere was great. I was seated near the kitchen and we got to speak and see the chef preparing the meals. I was too full for desert, however my friend had the homemade tiramisu and its a thumbs up for that desert. I would recommend La Partenope to anyone who wants a classy night out with great value for money.
We went to La Partenope during our holiday, at first it was the decor that attracts us to go inside, and we made the right choice. The food was excellent. We had ordered some scallops, pasta and a pizza to share. I must say the portion was generous. We did ask for child meal and the waiter told us the price won't be a lot of difference which we understand. Even MacDonald's kids happy meal costs 75% of a normal meal. Even though we were full we still wanted to try the dessert and you know what, the tiramisu is just divine! It's probably one of the best Italian restaurant we've been to.
My partner and I dined in La Partenope just before Christmas for the first time since moving to Scotland in November. We were very impressed with the food and the service.
We have been regulars in there every month since and i totally recommend it to anybody who likes nice Italian food in comfortable surroundings.
Having tried many of Edinburgh's so called "best" Italian restaurants this is by far our favourite. The other restaurants are totally over priced and the portions are nothing compared to this. It just goes to show you that if you shop around you will find your ideal restaurant.
Our candle lit dinner on Valentines day was 10 out of 10 and i feel so lucky to have a partner that totally agrees with me (for a change lol)!!
My boyfriend and I have visted La Partenope on numerous occasions and have always found the food and service to be of an excellent standard. The staff and atmosphere are friendly, relaxing and homely whilst maintaining a formal standard. The food is excellent, especially the wonderful fresh seafood and the gorgeous homemade desserts. Lots of lovely choices, catering for virtually every need. The prices are very reasonable, one could not hope to find a better or more authentic Neapolitan restaurant in Edinburgh!
Almost a British institution, Pizza Express offers affordable food in pleasant surroundings. Edinburgh boasts five establishments, ranging from the riverside architect-designed Stockbridge branch, to the politically local Holyrood building. There are consistently high standards across the board, with well-informed service and suitably skilled kitchen staff, and though the menu may not be breaking boundaries, it does satisfy a sudden urge for good-quality, filling and fast Italian food. Items from the salad menu are served with a side of baked dough sticks and are now self-dressed following customer feedback. The six varieties, including standards such as Caesar, are ideal for those wanting a light lunch. As the name suggests, however, pizza is what the larger extent of the menu is about. Long lasting regulars are joined by the thinner based Romano pizza and sporadic seasonal offerings. Pasta lacks the spontaneity of the pizza offerings, but is still a viable alternative to a bread-based meal. A Diavolo pizza of spicy beef, pepperoni, onions, Tabasco and hot peppers is topped to satisfy even the most insatiable meat-eater. Of the vegetarian choices the Veneziana is a break from the norm with the addition of sultanas and a donation to the charity Venice in Peril. Desserts are a bit of a letdown after the sheer variety of pizza, but die-hard fans will cope with a daily-baked Strudel di Mele (how the Italians do apple pie) or Semi Freddo Reale with a shot of espresso to see you up the road.
Prezzo in Edinburgh's Newhaven Harbour is one of two sojourns north of the border for an ambitious London-based chain that aims to offer value-for-money Italian food in stylish contemporary surrounds. An aim which has, to some extent, been accomplished here. It is certainly a stylish space: sensitive lighting, sleek feature walls and enormous windows overlooking the harbour create a warm, airy restaurant with room for both family parties and intimate couples. Unfortunately the same quality is not necessarily applied to the food, and with all the ingredients sourced centrally, some standards fall by the wayside. Still, the menu is far from expensive, and offers a wide range of imaginative combinations to go with pasta, on pizza, or in a salad. So, a 'stretched to order' Fiorentina pizza comes topped with spinach, a perfectly cooked egg and fresh mozzarella. It looks appetising, though the gas-fired pizza oven somehow manages to make it taste of charcoal without getting the base crispy, so it's disappointingly chewy. Starters are a wee bit perkier: deep-fried mozzarella is perhaps somewhat pub-kitchen, but is perfectly enjoyable for that and, thankfully, desserts prove to be a bit of a bargainous high point, particularly as a hazelnut ice-cream bombe weighs in at only £2.75.
What a disappointment. We had often walked past this place and finally gave it a try last night. It was awful.
First, the ambience is more Stansted than friendly neighbourhood restaurant. The space is clinical and very uninspired, with tinny music echoing round the vast warehouse. There were about ten people in. The menu is safe, to say the least; nothing that you haven't seen hundreds of times before. No steak, dammit. In fact, very little meat on the menu at all.
Prawns came swimming in an all-purpose red sauce that had the raw metallic taste of a tin. The Caesar salad, which was not especially cheap, had brown-edged leaves and was miserly in its proportions. The Carbonara was dry and tasteless. No depth to it. If you're going to go for double cream and full-fat cheese as a basis for your dinner, you want to justify it on the grounds of flavour. Not the case here - in fact, worst we'd ever come across. The pizza, for all the theatrical dough-flipping going on in the open kitchen, was very poor. Tasteless dough, tasteless blah toppings. I've had better delivered by moped.
Booked at very short notice which was little difficult over the phone (some language difficulties) however when we arrived the service was excellent. Food was very well presented and a good standard but not amazing. My gilrfriend had the ravioli and it was very dry and there was very little sauce. The decor was very tasteful and had a very modern feel which suited the experience. This place will be very nice in the summer which you can sit outside lookiing over the harbour. I will be going back at some point without a doubt.
Nestled on Causewayside, off the south-east tip of the Meadows, this humble little Italian restaurant produces dishes that are quite different – principally the ones that have a trademark shot of sambuca drizzled over them as they are served. The spirit is set alight so that the dish briefly blazes a brilliant blue. The liquor infuses into the creamy sauce, adding an unusual note of aniseed to contrast the flavour which works surprisingly well. Such special treatment is given to the split crayfish and the gamberoni (king prawns). Also available are various traditional pastas (as starter or main), pizzas and veal and chicken dishes. However, the fresh seafood dishes scream out as being the chef’s favourites and the ones to go for. Making good use of the top-quality Eddie’s Seafood Supplies nearby, the home-made lobster ravioli is scrumptious, and the tasty whole sea bream with a rustic cherry tomato sauce is reliably special. Opting for a coffee or a digestif is advisable as an alternative to dessert. A regular crowd of locals and students, who turn a blind eye to the desperate need for an interior revamp, come here to enjoy homely Italian food at reasonable prices.
Strada is the most upmarket in the range of Tragus Group restaurant chains which includes Bella Italia and Café Rouge. Situated in among the high street stores at the Princes Street end of Castle Street, it’s not an obvious target for an evening meal. Inside, however, it is stylish, clean and elegant with polished dark wood floors, grey walls and a red accent around a high-stool framed bar with a hint of 1950s American drug store about it. Differentiating itself from its sister chains, everything at Strada is made from scratch with fresh ingredients such as seafood, delivered daily. Thin and crispy garlic and rosemary pizza bread can be enjoyed while leaving room for big, soft king prawns well cooked in strong garlic, white wine and lemon or perhaps a fresh, tasty mozzarella with plum tomatoes delicately dressed with fresh basil and olive oil. Mains include a good choice of Italian staples, although a risotto verdure with a range of green veg including asparagus was bit on the salty side. Paper thin pizzas are light and doughy and include a couple of lower calorie options for the health conscious. Desserts are worth leaving room for and include a fine tiramisu and a rich fondente cacao with a melted chocolate centre.
Ti Amo's position opposite the Festival Theatre ensures its enduring success. Amusingly dated décor distracts from perusing menus bearing the brunt of many a thumb and spilled vino: menu-matching, smoke-aged, stencilled walls; pillars, statues, and an astounding, must-see, heart-shaped fountain as you glide down sweeping steps to the loos. Ti Amo happily lives up to the clichés, giving punters what they want. An extensive menu ensures options for all, even the carbonara-conscious who can plump for the 'healthy choice' menu. Beautifully titled retro classics such as the Sofia Loren pizza (asparagus and Parma ham), spaghetti Gorbachev (smoked salmon, vodka and caviar) and scampi Casanova (in a sauce of shallots, brandy, cream and mustard) appear alongside accessible favourites from melon and prosciutto to lasagne al forno and specials such as tagliatelle Ti Amo, done in a creamy bolognese sauce with olives and pepperoni. So pick your dessert by its picture, pour another glass and enjoy what will surely be a most memorable experience.
My wife and I visit Ti Amo regularly, often before visits to the Festival Theatre. The food is very enjoyable and of good value, with a wide range of choices. (The antipasto with pizza style garlic bread, and the Tagliatelle Ti Amo, are particularly recommended.) The staff are invariably polite and friendly, and are always happy to advise on what might be suitable if you have little time before crossing the road to the theatre. The decor is as described in the Time Out review above: unpretentiously charming, a phrase I would use to describe the restaurant as a whole. We have taken friends here, and have never had a disappointing visit. I would warmly recommend Ti Amo to anybody.
I have been at Tiamo many times as the place is near my flat and it is always convenient for me just to come over. The place is nice and the atmosphere is really pleasant. I feel always welcome there even when the place is really busy. I can always see that the staff is doing their best to deliver as good service as they can. Anytime they have a minute they engage in pleasant conversation. I really enjoy that. The food is nice. The portions are really large. Their garlic bread, freshly made on the pizza base is really nice starter for two. I often share it with my friend. It is different from the dishes offered by other restaurants which most of the time are tiny and not really fresh. I really enjoy their spagetti seafood which is always very testy, fresh and looks fantastic. Occasionally I may order some chicken or fillet dishes which are cooked nicely with different sauces and served with nice garnish, boiled vegetables or chips what I can choose depends on my mood..I would really recommend the place as I think it is really nice place for pleasant dinner.
Eight of us had dinner at this fabulous Italian restaurant. The staff was extremely attentive and had excellent suggestions about the menu. Very affordable with great portions! I found a gem!
Love love love this place!






ERIC LOMANDO has done it again. The talented, young chef-restaurateur, responsible for the success of Kitchen a Bistro and Kitchen a Trattoria, has added a rustic Italian spot in Miller Place to his collection: Orto.
His other places, both in St. James, continue to thrive. Kitchen a Bistro, which serves French/Mediterranean fare, opened in a tiny space in 1998 and moved into the former Mirabelle in 2009; Kitchen a Trattoria filled the space vacated by Kitchen a Bistro. 
Orto, like the other two restaurants, does not accept credit cards. Like Kitchen a Bistro, it has a liquor license, but diners may bring their own wine, and many do. 
The new restaurant, which opened in February, is in the historic Daniel Miller House, a lovely building from about 1824 that has been home to many restaurants, most recently Brian Scotts. The building gives Orto a number of small, charming dining areas: a nook with a table for two, a front room with four tables and a narrow space between the door and the bar with one long table for 8 to 10. 
The main dining room, which looks as rustic as the rest of the house, with rough-hewn rafters, stucco walls and a corner fireplace, has a greenhouse-style glass extension. Floors throughout the building are plank or earthenware tile. 
The food reflects the décor: rustic and earthy, with some innovative notes. The meal gets off to a good start with crusty bread from Tom Cat Bakery, paired with assertive olive oil. 
One evening the surprise appetizer hit was tripe. The tender scraps of meat were braised with tomato and crowned with Parmesan cheese. Even those who usually do not like tripe proclaimed it delicious. 
A serving of three huge, tasty meatballs in a lush tomato sauce atop creamy polenta was homey and appealing. An opener of roasted cauliflower was also popular, although its bagna cauda vinaigrette was applied so sparingly that the dish seemed bland. White bean and kale soup sang with flavor; a salad of baby greens with pecorino dressing was fine but unexciting. 
Diners may choose pasta as either a starter for $12 or a main course for $20. If spaghetti with clams is offered, go for it. The clams were plump and tender, the sauce bolstered with a flavorful roasted-garlic purée and red pepper flakes. The dish gets crunch from toasted bread crumbs and sea beans, a marine plant that also adds a kick of freshness. Pappardelle Bolognese was flavorful and loaded with meat. Lasagna Bolognese was even better, with a creamy, cheesy topping. 
All the meat entrees delivered. A simple roasted organic chicken breast had a marvelously crisp skin and was served over roasted potatoes bathed in a salsa verde. It was so good we were still singing its praises days later. Another dish not to be missed is the grilled boneless pork chop, juicy and slightly pink at its center. It was sliced and served on a bed of roasted red peppers and fennel (since replaced by roasted sunchokes and onions). 
Two meat pairings also made the grade: fork-tender lamb teamed with lamb sausage, and a meltingly soft duck leg confit served with a square of crisp pork belly atop a bed of chewy faro and a tangy cherry agrodolce (sweet and sour sauce). 
Desserts are made in house and, with one exception, were very good. The best were a tangy lemon ricotta cheesecake, a satiny panna cotta, and hot, made-to-order doughnut nuggets served with a dark chocolate dipping sauce. The sole misstep was a tiramisù with an Amaretto flavor that we found off-putting. 
There is nothing off-putting about this rustic spot with creative food, except the need to stop at an ATM (or bring your checkbook) to pay for dinner
THE SPACE Charming, historic house, built around 1824, with inviting small dining areas and an airy main dining room. There is a wheelchair ramp at a side entrance, and the restaurant is on one level; restrooms have no grab bars. 
THE CROWD Casual, celebratory groups, including some children. The staff is generally attentive, although our server one night was often out of sight when we needed her. 
THE BAR Full bar service. The bar has a mirror backing, a shiny granite top and 11 stools. List of 33 wines by the bottle ($22 to $60) and 5 by the glass ($10). There is no corkage fee for the many diners who bring their own wine. 
THE BILL Three-course, prix fixe meal, $38; four-course meal, $48. À la carte entrees are $23, pastas $20. These are modest prices for food of this quality. Cash or personal checks only. 
WHAT WE LIKED White bean and kale soup, tripe, meatballs over polenta, pappardelle Bolognese, spaghetti with clams, lasagna, pork chops, lamb duo, duck confit and pork belly, roast chicken, lemon ricotta cheesecake, panna cotta, doughnut nuggets. 
IF YOU GO Open Tuesday through Thursday, 5 to 9:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5:30 to 9:30 p.m.; and Sunday, 4 to 8 p.m. Closed Monday. Reservations are taken only for parties of five or more from Tuesday to Thursday but are required for everyone on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
People like me, who spend their evenings haunting vast, baroque dining establishments, puzzling over crowded, multipage menus and gorging (or trying not to gorge) on remorselessly similar variations of foie gras or molten-chocolate cake, often dream of escaping to a certain kind of restaurant. This imaginary restaurant is a neighborly place, tucked on an out-of-the-way street, where waiters aren’t excessively fawning and the prices aren’t excessively high. The room is big enough not to be poky, but not so big that you have to shout to be heard. There are no trendy circular lampshades hanging from the ceiling, no freakishly large flower arrangements sprouting to the sky. There is a bar to dine at, and possibly two. The food is various but not busy, and prepared in a way that highlights the ingredients instead of the vaunted skills of an egotistical chef. It’s a restaurant, in other words, where one would be happy to dine on an off night, on his own nickel, when it wasn’t his dubious professional duty to devour everything in sight.
Bellavitae, which opened not long ago on a nondescript corner of Minetta Lane and Sixth Avenue in the Village, is this kind of place. The modest little Italian restaurant occupies a single long room, with a bar in the back for eating and one in the front for sipping wines. The floor is covered with wide wood planking, and the ceiling with countrified beams. The proprietor, Rolando Beramendi, supplies many of the city’s leading Italian restaurants with their fancy imported olive oils, pastas, and vinegars, and Bellavitae (the name is a mix of the Latin for “beautiful life” and “beautiful vines”) is designed to showcase these rarefied products. So there are jars of chestnut honey from Lake Como ($17) set up along the walls, slim bottles of ancient Leonardi balsamic vinegar (a 100-year-old bottle costs $500), and little bags of baldo and arborio rice ($4 and $4.75, respectively) supplied by a contessa from the Piedmont region of Italy. There’s even a photograph of the rice-growing contessa on the wall, along with a rogues’ gallery (grizzled vintners, merry honey-makers, etc.) of Mr. Beramendi’s other suppliers.
If all this sounds a little precious, well, that’s because it is. Bellavitae is already a favorite haunt of delicate, food-obsessed souls who murmur over the quality of the green Nocellara olives (from Sicily) and the radicchio, which is state-inspected and picked by hand in the hills around Treviso. Unlike at some of the city’s other high-minded, ingredient-conscious foodie palaces, however, the menu here is presented casually, within the context of a familiar culinary tradition, and it’s relatively cheap. It’s the kind of straightforward, unfussy food that would send you into paroxysms of tourist glee if you came across it at a trattoria in the hills around Treviso, say. Like little pewter cocktail bowls filled with meatballs fried in extra-virgin olive oil, for instance, or grilled figs from Calabria bundled in strips of pancetta. There are toasty crostini also, layered with Gorgonzola drizzled with that chestnut honey from Lake Como or puréed chickpeas splashed with Sicilian olive oil and flakes of bottarga or stacked with chicken livers mashed, in the Tuscan style, with anchovies, garlic, and a trace of white-wine vinegar. 
I liked the chicken-liver crostini the best, and would have ordered another platter or two if my cholesterol-fixated wife hadn’t threatened to grapple me to the floor. I also liked the figs, and the fried risotto balls, which are meager in size (they look like Tater Tots) but laced with nice bits of tomato and mozzarella. Before the heftier courses arrive, it’s also possible to indulge in a good, milky buffalo mozzarella tangled with prosciutto, and a variety of chaste vegetable dishes designed, in high Greenmarket fashion, to be admired as much for their beauty as for their taste. I sampled a decent salad made with perfectly spiky wild arugula leaves, and a wet, slightly wan-tasting plate of chickpeas flavored, it seemed, with nothing very much at all. The very good, very green fava beans are served uncooked, with nuggets of pecorino cheese, and then there’s the fancy Treviso radicchio, which isn’t bulbous like radicchios of my acquaintance, or even terribly bitter, but soft, almost sweet (here it’s flavored with more balsamic), and twirled with ribbons of grilled pancetta.
Unlike with the majority of brawny, overstuffed Italian restaurants these days, there are only four pasta dishes on the menu at Bellavitae, and four secondi courses, and they are more or less interchangeable as main courses. All the pastas I sampled were good, especially the thin tubes of egg garganelli tossed with an authentically beefy Bolognese ragù, chewy triangles of farro-based “pizzichi” pasta smothered in a rich porcini-mushroom-and-pancetta sauce, and a well-cooked bowl of bucatini piled with an assortment of shellfish. Among the secondi, my sliced steak could have been sliced thicker, and the tepid marinated sardines were obliterated by too many sweet onions. But the simple oven-baked pork fillet tasted fine, as did the chicken cacciatore, which was swimming in a rich tomato sauce filled with black Ligurian olives. There’s also a superior fritto misto, made with hunks of rabbit on one evening I visited and cod on another, and served, both times, with segments of fennel rolled in semolina and crunchy fried slices of Meyer lemon. 
The menu changes often at Bellavitae, but many of the more exotic ingredients (extra-virgin olive oils, caperberries from Sicily, etc.) are constant, and many of them are for sale. The prices of these items are listed on the back of the menu, and some of the waiters hawk them a little too profusely. But this didn’t seem to faze the eclectic crowd, which included, on one of the nights I dropped in, several gigantic members of the New York Giants football team, all taking prim bites of pasta and squinting curiously at the labels of obscure Italian wines. Presumably these discerning gentlemen enjoyed the desserts, which are unfussy and agreeably Italian. There are wedges of spongy panettone, a dense slab of chocolate semifreddo dribbled with hazelnut liqueur, and a creamy, perfectly wobbly panna cotta doused with a grape essence called saba. Best of all are the gelati, which come drowned in espresso or infused with lemon marmalade and a mini shot of grappino (grappa flavored with Meyer lemons). Taste them delicately, like we weary gourmet professionals are taught to do, or do the natural thing and devour them whole.
Tomaso's dining room is simple but nice. The owner included his standard cherubs on the ceiling!
There is a bar that's not very separated from the dining room. TVs in upscale restaurants bug me.
This bar was not a 'meat market'. It seemed like just a few friends meeting for a happy hour snack.
A sign read that appetizers were half price until 7 p.m., but that only applies to the bar area. :-(
The bread at Tomaso's was a disappointment. Not warm, crust not crunchy.
I feel that places that serve olive oil for bread should have fresh ground pepper. None offered.
While we were there, a couple came in, sat down, looked at the menu and left. Sticker shock.
This place seems to attract more of a middle aged crowd. I guess that's who can afford it!
The entrees were excellent, and overshadowed those small negatives that were minor in comparison.
Our visit to Tomaso's was a pleasant one. We had visited Tomaso's original location in Phoenix years ago, but this was our first chance to visit the Chandler location. 
My friends both liked the Fried Calamari appetizer better than I did. I found it a little over breaded, but at least it was tender and not chewy. Definitely a portion large enough for two to share. I enjoyed the Mediterranean Platter -- real anchovies! -- I enjoy the variety and the choices were light and very tasty. Again, large enough to share. 
The entrees at Tomaso's were the highlight of the meal. The Lobster and Seafood Cioppino was wonderful, too huge to finish. The Scampi with Lobster Ravioli was different than typical scampi; it was more like a garlicky marsala sauce, and had mushrooms. Although I love traditional scampi, I'd go back for this entree again. The Osso Buco was also a hit, although my eating companion snagged some of my vegetables to go with it. 
Here's a warning about Tomaso's web site: as of this writing it is incomplete (where's the dinner menu? where are the desserts?) and the prices are out of date. They are all higher now. 
Tomaso's gets high ratings for their tiramisu--we tried a sample and it was excellent. We were just too full to order dessert! 
If you check around (see link below for "Coupons and Discounts") you can sometimes find discounted certificates for Tomaso's. 
We'll be going back to Tomaso's again, and we're looking forward to it.
The food is anti pasta,and italian food which is bad for your health.I have actually seen waterbugs in their kichen and seen some nasty stuff which goes on in the place.With the bar oh forget about it.There is a dish washer that doesn't even clean their dishes the proper way.The drinks also taste horrible in which they taste like water,instead of how they are supposed to taste like.They put too much ice in the drinks instead of you tasting the drinks content of alcohol they put way too much ice in their drinks.There are people in that place who are nasty to the customers.I would seriously be thinking about another italian place to eat at.
We had heard good reviews from friends and co-workers with the food, ambiance and service. They got 1/3 correct, the ambiance is terrific, good table size, layout and plenty of room to stretch. We decided to try the dine out for $38. The service was lackluster at best, as the host was nonchalant and the waitress and disinterested. Considering it was a Sunday night and we were in high spirits, it did not bother us. Our first plates were the beef carpaccio and caprese salad, both came out very quickly. The beef disintegrated on contact and over salted. This had been prepared in advance and was sitting in the fridge somewhere for way too long. The caprese was ok and again over salted. The entrees selected were the sablefish and seafood pasta. The sablefish was warm, not hot as freshly cooked seafood should be. My wife's tiger prawns, even though they were large, came out raw. Again, both entrees came out less than 5 minutes after the appetizer. The only saving grace were the desserts, the tiramisu was the best dish. For what we paid for, we could have ordered from the regular menu and actually got some freshly cooked Italian food, the way it should be done. Instead, we ended up with overpriced and underwhelming food. I could think of a multitude of other restaurants in the same price category with better value and quality.
Been wanting to try this place every single time we drive by. Finally took my husband and family there to celebrate his birthday. Decor looks nice inside & out - a good surprise given its location. The waiter seemed friendly enough, but ended up ignoring us for the duration of the meal - took him forever to bring us food and divide up the birthday cake at the end. It didn't feel like other warm friendly Italian restaurant that we're used to going to. One thing good was that the appetizers were delicious - we tried both the bruschetta and the spotted prawns, but the entrees were pretty disappointing - homemade pasta that had a weird after taste and got cold and mushy fast. My in-laws had that evening's seafood special which they said was alright. Overall I thought the meal, service, and value wasn't that great - it left me wishing for so much more.
Went with my mother and boyfriend to celebrate his birthday. He had heard rave reviews on the Fox about this place and it's association to Tony Parson blah blah blah....
Flash forward to our experience. The nicest staff member was the hostess who was friendly and smiley. The rest of the staff there looked like they hated their life and were counting down the minutes till the end of their shift.Our server was nice enough but shy and very new. We ordered the prawns to start (5 for 14.00... bad value) and the flavour was okay. I am an avid seafood fan and spoiled because my boyfriend fishes, the prawns tasted fishy.
I had the tortellini and so did my mother, my boyfriend has the pesto pasta. He asked to have chicken added, but apparently the kitchen does not stock chicken... so he asked for prawns. We were charged a WHOPPING $2.50 per prawn. Even Hy's doesn't charge that much! He ordered 5 because he was the birthday boy.
All of our food was so so, I have had much better Italian elsewhere. Our bread had to be prompted to be brough to us, the drinks were average and I put on the reservation it was my boyfriends birthday and no one wished a happy birthday to him till I very blatently told the staff at desert time. They did bring a tiramisu but I just wish we had gone somewhere else. It left me regretting the decision.
On a side note, there was an employee dining on personal time and he was going into the fridge and grabbing bottles of wine for himself and getting rather beligerant to the employees about this and that. His kids were running around the restaurant screaming and crying... it was very distracting and somewhat rude. Not a professional site at all.
Another lovely meal with my parents, this time at Poor Italian. We have been here several times and have never been disappointed.
The bread basket is always amazing, with a large selection of flavours and textures. But be careful, don't fill up on the bread, lots of yummy pastas to come!
Just a perfect swirl of butter to enhance the freshly heated bread. It's room temperature, so you don't tear apart your bread trying to get some on it.
I picked the wine tonight, and we went with a Petite Syrah - Bogle. A bit too rich for my mom, but my stepdad and I both enjoyed it. Pairs well with our dishes too.
My mom wanted something light (as in non-meaty) so she ordered their Gnocchi with Wild Mushrooms. Since it was done with brown butter sauce, this wasn't exactly a light dish. Topped with some pecorino and sage this was a real comfort dish. But it was so rich she ended up taking half of it home,
My stepdad and I decided to share the lamb, and it was a generous portion as well. Lots of potatoes and grilled veggies accompanied the dish. Had we known that this was such a large meal, we probably wouldn't have ordered a pasta dish as well.
My all-time favourite pasta is Tagliatelle with Pappardelle being a close second. Their tagliatelle was in a gorgonzola cream sauce, which was too rich for me. So we went with the Pappardelle with Braised Veal Cheeks an in a fresh thyme and red wine sauce. We have a winner!
We had asked for the lamb to be done medium rare, and it was. Juicy on the inside with just a little pink, but nicely grilled and charred on the outside too.
Driving by, the restaurant name was quite catchy so I stopped in with my father to have lunch one day. My impressions of the place.. NIce looking inside & out, polite & professional staff. Menu is a little pricy but that's ok if the food matches the price. We split an appy, the calamari.. was ok. I ordered the risotto al barolo & the waiter suggested that I don't get that & that I should try the risotto ai funghi (mushroom risotto) instead. He said the one I ordered wasn't that good.. Why is it on the menu then?? So I tried a plate of both risotto's, half & half. He was right, the mushroom version was much better. My father ordered a simple italian dish, spaghetti with meat balls. He said he could have made it the same at home & he's no chef.. So after a $50 lunch for 2 I wasn't impressed with the food. It was ok but I've had much better for less price. When returning home I checked out the restaurant's website, nice site! Looked over their menu & noticed they had a bigger dinner menu to choose from so decided to give it one more try.
Round 2: I took the wife for dinner on a saturday night. Our server was very friendly, professional & knowledgeable. We shared a half litre of pinot grigio & she had the prosciutto wrapped chicken breast for $26. I had the Ossobuco with butternut squash risotto for $35. My dish once again was just ok, nothing special or memorable. In the end I decided that I will not return to this restaurant. The price is high but the food is average. I gave the food a 3 out of 5 but if there was an option for a 2.5 rating that is what it would have received.
After hearing the buzz about this new restaurant, we decided to check it out on Friday night. We had a reservation and were promptly seated although it took about 10 minutes for a waiter to come over and greet us. After that little blip however, the service was very attentive.
The room is nice with a old world feel although its a little cramped with not enough separation between tables. To start, we had the antipasto platter which comes with a wide variety of meats cured in-house, cheeses, fish, eggplant, artichokes, and olives. Its a large and tasty plate of food for just over $13. I had the rack of lamb which came with a half a rack and a variety of veggies and potatoes. The rack wasn't trimmed like I would have expected but it was still good. 
Overall the food was very good and a great value. The prices are very reasonable but it is in East Vancouver so maybe they are adjusted accordingly. I would definitely return when I am in the mood for a well priced, classic Italian meal.
A date night tonight, and we chose The Poor Italian.
We made reservations, we like to dine early so we made reservations for 5:30pm. Althought quiet then, by 6pm, it was packed. So I suggest reservatons.
We had a lovely relaxed evening. The service was excellent. Very attentive. 
We started with the Antipasto, wow it was so much food, with fresh smoked Salmon, olives, beans, eggplant etc, all you can wish for in an Antipasto.
I had the Rack of Lamb, which came with roasted veg. I must admit the veg left a bit to be desired, but the lamb was amazing, a very good serving, full of flavour. I just loved it. One of the best things I have eaten in while. 
SL had one of the specials, basically spagetti and meatballs, but that name does not do it justice. The sauce had such depth, the meatballs, had a hint of heat that played off the sauce. She loved it!
We decided to have dessert too, I had the Dark Chocolate Terrine, which was a chocolate lovers delight.
SL had the Tiramisu, and it was so light and fluffy, she said it melted in your mouth. 
This place was packed, so I do suggest a reservation, but I could see the wait staff working so hard to seat everyone, and judge when people will move on.
Although a bit pricey for my normal dining, we would go back in a heart beat.
Lord knows good ol East Van has been in dire need of a good Italian resteraunt for years. Seems strange that, though the area is still home to thousands of folks of Italian heritage, its tough to find decent Italian food here. The Poor Italian might remedy this situation. But my single dining experience there left me feeling much lighter in the wallet but not overly impressed with any facet of the evening. The prices are definitely West Side and the portions a little skimpy. My Linguine Vangole was tasty but skimpy for $17. My friends prawn and scallop dish was a decent size but was closer to $30, if I recall correctly.The shellfish was cooked simply and perfectly. Our shared caesar salad was too small however tasty. The room is a little cramped affecting the ambience. However, they've done a good job with what they have to work with. It wasnt long ago that the space was occupied by a shabby breakfast joint. Dinner for two with a half litre of house red swill came to $100, tip incl. Not crazy... but if I'm dropping that kind of cash I want exemplary food, service and ambience. We got satisfactory and I'm not rushing back.
Visited as a party of six (three couples). We had a reservation and it was honoured promptly and without incident. The table was of an appropriate size for the group, the table setting was handsome and the seating was comfortable.
The waiter was reasonably attentive with drink orders but it did take a little while to get our food order in.
Aaand the food. Stunningly horrible, we couldn't actually believe how bad it was. Only one person of the six enjoyed their entree - the lasagna. All 5 other diners in the party had terrible dishes.
I ordered some sort of spinach fettucini type pasta darkened with... something like squid ink, to make it very dark green (looked kind of ominous but I did sign up for it, so no foul there). It had perhaps trace elements, a few spare molecules maybe, of crab (or whatever seafood was paired with it) but nothing larger than 2 mm x 5mm shred of meat. As if that wasn't bad enough, someone decided to squeeze 18 lemons worth of sour disgustingness onto it. It was basically inedible.
My partner and a few others ordered various other pasta pairings with seafood. None had anything other than token shreds of what may have been seafood, and most had other wildly inappropriate flavour pairings that served to ruin the dish.
All in all, great initial service, okay-to-good-ish continuing service, but the absolute worst food I had in 2011. I'm not kidding. This is the WORST food I had all year. And for the privilege, it's also quite expensive, so there's that. Please save yourself the trouble and skip the Poor Italian.
It was a friend's birthday earlier this month and we finally got a chance to get together tonight to celebrate. It was our first time here and it was the second time for our other friend. We started with the antipasto - nice variety. For dinner, I had the chicken breast stuffed a sundried tomato and goat cheese and my friends had linguini with crab and mushroom risotto. Our meals came piping hot (good sign!). We enjoyed our meals but the service could have been better. It was difficult to understand her (no, she wasn't ESL) as her tone of voice gave us the impression that it was a chore to provide a decent explanation when we asked questions about the menu. We'd come back again but hopefully we get a server that understands what good customer service is all about - a smile would have been nice too.
I thought, ok, this place looks nice from the outside, good name and oh, Tony Parsons co owns it, ok, big deal, what is it all about?? Being Italian myself I know the menu. First time I went back when it opened, I ordered the Antipasto, big and good valve for what you pay for. Second time, we ordered the Antipasto they cut down,not as much and too expensive for just 2 slices of Prosciutto and some crumble Reggiano??cheese, no big deal. Not too impressed with it so far, then I ordered the Pasta dish with Carbonara sauce, not too bad, too Al Dente. Second time I went there, I ordered the Gnocchi with Meat sauce, not bad, still too pricey for just Potato Dumplings. I know everything is Hand-Made, but come on People are you charging too much for that or because Tony Parsons name is on it???
Good Service, can be a little more not so stuck up, but all in all, it's too expensive and it's in the East End of town, not putting it down, I am from the East End myself. Like I said, everything is Home-Made so that's good but just too pricey, that's all.
Especially now with prices going up in groceries, fuel, etc, etc, etc.......
This evening our manager took us for an 'appreciation dinner' to show her appreciation of our work over the past year. She asked for suggestions and I mentioned Poor Italian, as I know she's a fan of Italian cuisine as is another of my coworkers and it's not too far from our workplace. I had been to this restaurant on two prior occasions. The first time, a few years ago, it was a group dinner and I had ordered a seafood linguine, which wasn't seasoned at all (though the linguine were cooked properly) and had little flavor. The only thing I really enjoyed was the warm bread which was really tasty, with plenty of olive oil in the focaccia. I thought this was maybe an off night for the chef and that he just forgot to season my dish. It can happen. The others in my group seemed satisfied with their fare. Service was OK.
I tried this place again when I took my father out for dinner, last year, as he likes Italian too. My dad had a pretty average looking carbonara (not really a rocket science dish which is easy to prepare) and I ordered a salad for myself which was quite mediocre. Service not so stellar and rather inattentive (ie we were left sitting there with dirty plates)
This evening was my third visit, as my manager and coworkers were game to try this restaurant. We had reservations for 5 pm. Given that it was a Tuesday night, I was surprised at the bad table we were given. It was right at one of the entrance points to the service area (kitchen) so I spent the entire time with a view of the kitchen. It was also chilly and drafty. Not sure why they stuck our small group of 5 there when there were other places to put us and the place did not fill up by the time we left at 7:30.
This is not a good place to dine for someone who has dietary restrictions ie if you do not eat meat, seafood and dairy, there is very little to choose from. Even a dish that could be prepared without meat ingredients such as the daily soup special of asparagus broccoli soup, was made with chicken stock and cream. I cautiously settled on gnocchi in a tomato sauce, as my only alternative choice, mushroom risotto, was made with (yep, you guessed it) meat based stock. I say cautiously because gnocchi are a tricky dish to make. I know good gnocchi . 
I was served an enormous plate resembling a flying saucer, which had a hollow filled with a rather small mound of gnocchi (having skipped lunch, in prep for our dinner, I was disappointed at the small portion). Presentation was nonexistent - it was your basic piled up gnocchi with smears of tomato sauce; if it was supposed to have something green as a contrasting garnish (ie parsley or basil), I didn't see any sign of it.
Another of our party also opted for the gnocchi. I tried my first one and found it undercooked. The first few millimeters were cooked and the interior was like raw mushy gnocchi dough. I thought, hmm, maybe it's just one that didn't quite cook long enough. So I tried 4 more, all had the same nasty raw doughy texture. The sauce was very bland, underseasoned and nothing to rave about. Bland was the overall impression, other than the unpleasant texture of the undercooked gnocchi. The other diner who had ordered them found them to be the same, mushy. Neither of us was thrilled with our choice and gave up eating it. When the staff was alerted, a rather menacing large man came over - I don't know who he was, he didn't identify himself to me so not sure if he was the general manager. He loomed over me and attempted to lecture me on what gnocchi are supposed to be like.
Maybe he gets away with this attempt to intimidate and 'persuade' diners who are not happy with their gnocchi when the diners are not very familiar with this particular pasta type. I happen to have eaten heavenly gnocchi at home all my life. I wouldn't expect restaurant gnocchi to match up to my mamma's (exept perhaps in a truly top restaurant with a stellar chef) but I would expect them to be cooked, at the very least. These were not and a few minutes went by while the large man tried to persuade me these gummy, raw disasters were supposed to be that way. At length, seeing we were not willing to choke down the raw gnocchi, they were taken away and we were asked whether we wanted more gnocchi (a tactless suggestion). My friend opted for the lasagna and I asked whether they could make me spaghetti aglio olio. I figured they couldn't mess that up as it's one of the simplest of pasta dishes. 
My friend's lasagna was to her satisfaction but from the moment I saw the plate of spaghetti, I knew by their appearance that I wasn't going to be able to eat my second choice of entree either. One of my group had ordered a seafood linguine and I could see it was made from fresh linguine. She was satisfied with her food. My spaghetti was obviously made from dry pasta, which was fine with me, but it wasn't fine with me that it was barely cooked. I was reminded of a Saturday Night Live sketch with Father Guido Sarducci cooking spaghetti for his dog. He took a strand of spaghetti out of the pot to ask the dog to test it to see whether it "was-a ready" and the thing had barely bent slightly from its immersion in the boiling water. My spaghetti was not 'a-ready' either. I could tell (and so could the person seated next to me) from its appearance that it was barely cooked, it still had the translucency of dry pasta. On an 'al dente' scale of 1 - 10, with say 4 being a normal al dente state, these were about an 8 or 9. They were getting stuck between my teeth like supersized hard dental floss. 
Besides the undercooked state of the spaghetti, whichever of the chefs prepared this disaster didn't put a whole lot into this dish, which, when prepared properly, doesn't sit atop a pool of oil and is garnished with fresh parsley. Just as I know good gnocchi, I know good spaghetti aglio olio. This was not the good kind. I gave up eating it and was managing to at least have some good laughs with my pals over my non-dining experience. The only thing I filled up on somewhat was a couple of small olives, put out on the table along with the bread. Here again, disappointment...I had looked forward to the bread, remembering my first visit and how we had all loved the warm focaccia and lovely variety of breads served while we waited for our food. This time the breads were cold, the focaccia crumbly and the baguette-like bread was hard and chewy. This was basically what I got to eat at Poor Italian so maybe it is well named after all, as I had a real poor man's meal tonight! Bread dunked in olive oil and balsamic vinegar.
Of the other entrees ordered by my group, the seafood linguine, the lasagna and seafood risotto passed muster with them. My friend who opted for a ravioli dish reported that parts of the ravioli were undercooked. There seems to be a theme developing here...undercooked (maybe the chef on the pasta station needs some remedial classes). He didn't sound too over the moon about his entree and I think he enjoyed his bruschetta appetizer more than the main. Three of my party tried desserts and the double espresso creme brule was deemed delicious as was the Millefoglie. The presentation of the desert plates made up for the lack of presentation on the entrees.
Service was attentive and the waitress told me 'we will pay for the spaghetti', so presumably they did a post-mortem in the kitchen after the busboy asked me whether I wanted the uneaten (and inedible) spaghetti wrapped up and I told him no, it was undercooked and inedible. I was glad as my boss was picking up the tab and would have felt bad if she paid for that inedible mess.
This place could be good if only it were consistent and the kitchen not staffed with hit & miss chefs. I won't be returning here or recommending this place to anyone. After this third strike, they're out.
I booked our meal a day in advance and then checked the website for the exact address for the cab. After I read the reviews I was a wee bit scared. I really don't understand the negative reviews. Our waiter, Joe, was very friendly and knowledgeable. The food came at proper times and we were allowed to enjoy it without being rushed. There was a lot of help if we needed it. It was our 29th anniversary and they made it very special. We will be coming back because we want to try more items on the menu. Thanks for making a special day more special.
My family and I took my Father in Law here (group of 6) for his birthday dinner last week. We were sat in the middle of the main room right away as we had a reservation. Ambiance is nice, lots of people, nice level of music, chatty but not disruptive of our dining experience.
Our server was fake the moment he got to our table, he apparently used to work at the Cannery and had mentioned that he was having all sorts of trouble with opening wine and being busy. Sort of a put off but we brushed it off.
I asked for the wine list which was very fairly priced and had a lovely selection, he handed it over and we had to wait another 10 mins after to actually order it then another 5 for him to bring it; we saw him running around, but then again so was everyone else including management, bussers and hostesses so there were plenty of people to help if needed - the only reason why i say this is because I used to work in a restaurant and noticed.
After he opened our wine he poured the entire bottle into 4 glasses (the other 2 weren't drinking), now it's not a big deal but I'd like to have my wine staggered, he even said something like "woah, I guess i over poured, heh" or something.
He mentioned the fish special which was a mediteranean white fish prepared and served whole then deboned tableside by a sous chef. My father in law and husband ordered it. It sounded fantastic. After sharing an antipasto platter which was very nice btw, or meals took approx 40 mins to come out. 2 fish, 1 osso bucco, 1 salmon, 1 bone-in chicken and my mussels. As our food was brought to us we waiting for the frenching to begin for both guys as this was apart of the service, no one came and therefor we waited while our food grew colder by the second. Another server came, deboned one and walked away, we had to call him back and he said "oh I thought there was only one". He proceeded to debone the other and finally, I'd say about 7 mins after receiving our meal, we started. My mussels cold, but broth flavorful, so it had potential, the fish apparently was overcooked and dry, salmon was nice as was the chicken, the ossobucco was salty and very very very small and over priced, with poor presentationa and crunchy risotto.
Our server was overall poor as was our food. From the looks of it most people also had some sort of issue, cold food, poor service, etc.
I won't be back, our bill was about $260 plus tip which is not bad for our group to eat, good value, but not worth it since the food is lacking and the service is really really poor. 
The chef came by and asked how our food was but didn't stop just basically said "hello how was everything" and didn't wait for anyone to respond; just walked away. It just got a review in the Globe and Mail and I couldn't agree more. Overall a miss - another thing with the server before I forget; he was cleaning a nearby table and for whatever reason it caught our eyes, he looked at the bill, said something like "pfft, what a joke" and slammed the billfold shut, obviously he didnt get a 'good enough' tip. He obviously didn't know that a) people could hear him and b) we were. watching him but it made us all laugh, that pretty much summed up at evening there.
I was extremely disturbed with the service here, after making reservations we had to wait 10 minutes for our table when there were clearly 3 open tables available. After we sat down, no one ever came to give us water or bread, after about 15 minutes I was kinda furious already. For the kind of ambiance and price they are charging I would expect more service and experienced servers! First of all what server??! We had no server, some guy behind the bar came to take our order, and when they were setting down our utensils they were reaching over us and not sure where to put things playing back and fourth..back and fourth...For start, the steamed mussels had really little flavor, and you don't get the good quality ones, they are small! The Caesar salad I ordered was the most dry and bland Caesar salad I have ever had, there were barely any croutons and dressing, luckily I was really hungry so I finished it. The dishes were all placed in front of the wrong people, if they knew what they were doing it would of been all good! Entrees finally arrived, the Veal Chop was meaty but dry, there were barely any sauce to eat with, the portion was decent but it wasn't satisfying. The pasta was okay, the sauce was creamy but the clams were TINY! LOL I can't believe no one ever came to ask how our food was, not to mention fill our water. Unbelievable! I've had way better Italian at many different places, what a disappointment, poor italian...poor service = bad dinner!
After reading all the hate for the Poor Italian I have avoided trying this restaurant despite a recommendation from a friend. For a number of reasons, I ended up there last evening and was generally pleased. Before dispensing my review, I must say, so many of the posts for this restaurant are exactly why I have not re-entered the business. Yes, everyone who pays is entitled to their opinion. However, some opinions just make me shake my head, especially when I have a look at the poster’s other reviews.
Without further adieu, my experience at the Poor Italian was good and quite obviously in contrast to many of the other reviewers. The ambiance was nice and the service attentive. For a starter I had the calamari with capers. This was the low point of my meal. The broth was far too salty and this made the dish quite harsh. Next I had the rigatoni with sausage and caramelized eggplant. It was excellent, with the eggplant being the star of the meal. In fact, I would love to have a big dish of rigatoni with just the eggplant. Fantastic! Next, I had one of the dinner specials, sockeye salmon involtini wrapped around a diver scallop in a light cream sauce. The salmon was cooked as I like it, still translucent in the middle. It showed a deft touch and was very good. 
The bottom line is that the Poor Italian could be better, but overall my experience was good and I will return.
I visited this restaurant with some trepidation. I had heard good things about it from a trusted friend but I had also read the many bad reviews on this site. It turns out that I was pleasantly surprised. Our experience got off to a good start with quick and inexpensive valet service. We were seated in a quiet corner and were greeted by a server who was friendly and knowledgeable, although maybe a little insincere. (He seemed like an actor pretending to be a server.) We started with a half-litre of delicious and well-priced wine and the calamari. I have to agree with previous reviewers that the calamari was a disappointment. It was rubbery and tasteless and the portion was small for the price. The entrees were better. I had the clam linguine and my spouse had a veal dish and we were both satisfied with the taste, size and presentation. Our bill came to $110 before tax/tip which seemed quite reasonable. I don’t think this will be a regular haunt for us, but I’m certainly glad that we tried it.
We heard about this place from a friend who has a keen appreciation for taste and value. His recommendations are always taken seriously and this one certainly lived up to expectations.
We had the soup (a chilled watercress), which was fabulous. I had the salad, which was fresh and delicious and used seasonal ingredients (mushrooms in particular) and my wife had the calamari. It was the best calamari she has ever had and she has had it all over the world! It was fresh and perfectly cooked (NOT rubbery or fishy tasting and not disguised under breading...straight up and perfect). We had the Berkshire pork chop and the clam linquine...both well presented and, more importantly delicious! For dessert, I had the chocolate souffle. I was warned that it would take a few minutes to make...which it did (but not unreasonable) and it was....outstanding. Simply outstanding.
I have read some other reviews here and I wonder if I was eating at the same place as those reviewers? The service was very good, the prices were reasonalbe (although not an inexpensive meal) and the overall experience was...."very very satisfying". We thoroughly enjoyed every dish and we would go back to this restaurant in a heartbeat...and we will!
Coming home from PNE and traffic was stopped on Hwy 1, so took the Rupert exit and found this restaurant. We were quickly shown to a cozy corner table. Very nice decor and the tables were beautifully set. Soft jazz playing made for a relaxed atmosphere. Our waiter was quickly there to take our drink orders and then to bring a bread basket with fresh baked Italian, Focaccia and flat breadsticks with herbs. Delicious! We skipped the appetizers and went straight for the pasta. I had the rigatoni with Italian sausage. Tasty with a thick rich sauce and chunks of Italian sausage. Daughter had the linguine with pesto, which she declared the best ever, and my wife had the warm spinach salad with fried goat cheese. The Maitre d', Gianfranco Loi, came to our table to introduce himself and ensure that we were satisfied. He chatted briefly with us, and then it was desert time. We ordered the chocolate gelato, which was served on a bed of whipped cream and topped with a chocolate spear and shaved curls. Great finish to our meal. We loved this experience, and will definately come again when we are in this neighborhood.
I had been to the Poor Italian several times last winter. My family and friends have enjoyed many wonderful evenings there. The service and food have gone from wonderful to outstanding since my last visit in the spring.Coming back in July we enjoyed many new dishes and look forward to our next visit.
Don't look at the outdated reviews try the poor Italian for yourself.
My first visit was back in February while the original chef was still in the picture. It was fantastic and we were looking forward to bringing the whole family in the next few months. Just before our second visit, I went online to look at the menu again and realized that some items had changed and prices had increased... hmmm. I checked here for some recent reviews and like Adam, was almost scared off but the family had already made reservations so we went ahead with our plans.
Starters were crab bisque, pan-seared calamari, and antipasto platters. Although our platters were given to the wrong table and we had to wait for ours to be remade, it was worth the wait! Main courses were Mushroom Risotto, Seafood Risotto, Gnocchi Pomadoro, Salmon with Scallops (daily special), and mom, who eats like a bird, scarfed down an entire plate of Veal Limone! The entire family is Italian, except for myself, and we all enjoyed every single morsel of our dinners! One guest commented that the gnocchi was better than his mother's. This almost created a riot! 
I'm glad we didn't let other reviews scare us off. Try it for yourselves.
So long and good bye. Don't bother making the effort to dine at this establishment. I was entertaining clients over lunch, we were the first to arrive. Obvious friends of an employee or owner arrived just after us and they recieved all the service that should have been offered to the other patrons. The waiter's shirt needed to be pressed, the hostess needed a bigger top to cover up with and the bus person looked like he was also the dishwasher. Not very apealing and we hadn'rt even ordered yet! Seriously, there are too many great Italian restaurants in Vancouver. Don't waste your time and money here.
My husband and I have been fans of Chef Gianni Picchi since his days spent in Victoria where he raised his two wonderful children. He is one of the few Chefs left in this town that has an abundance of knowledge, outstanding talent and insight to the restaurant industry. We have enjoyed many meals and memories with him and his food. We were exctatic to hear that he finally surfaced to share with us his magic that he creates in his kitchen. Only to find that he ended up on the East side which was a shame we didn't have him closer but it was a trek well worth making. It was even a greater surprise to see his son working by his side again,they always made our evenings and the odd lunch well worth our drive. We are sad to hear that after spending time in Italy he has come back to a few surprises and well as my title states, he has left The Poor Italian!! It is too bad the reviews I have read here on your site from the diners that had such a bad experience there. This is not what our experiences were like, far from it. Restaurants come and go, we were sure this one was here to stay. However without Chef Gianni I am afraid it has lost its driving force with his departure. Good luck to those left behind and we look forward to seeing where the Master turns up again.
The Poor Italian restaurant is the quintessential definition of self-deprecation. I'm not an expert, though my partner and I like to dine out, he's been a chef for 20+ years and I've been a HR professional for almost 10 years - so, we like to think of ourselves as a pretty good team when it comes to critiquing service & food. We rate on 4 things: 1st impression, food, service, and last impression.
1st IMPRESSION: 7pm - The parking lot has enough spaces, outside is clean and inviting. Valet parking for $5, but no valet. Obviously, the look and feel is that of fine dining (or an attempt at it) but casual enough. Two female hosts - My partner and I stand in front of them...eye contact...waiting..."Table for two." I say to them. "Do you have a reservation?" That was our greeting - a blank stare and "do you have a reservation?" I say, "No". "Well, I can seat you at the bar." "ALL these tables are reserved?" "Yes" she replies. There was 1 table for 2, 3 tables for 4, 1 table for 6 and 2 tables for 8 available from where I was standing and she was taking us to 2 of the 4 barstools available. We sit. I look at the rest of the restaurant, 2 more tables for 4 available. There were more tables than people.
FOOD entree: Our first 2 dishes, you'll have to forgive me, my partner does the ordering so I don't know the dish names - so I'll just describe what was brought to us.
1st dish: calamari in pasta sauce covered over sausage.
-the calamari; rubber, definitely not fresh.
-tomato sauce; out of a can with dried herbs for looks.
-sausage; supposed to be chorizo, bland and thick skinned.
NOTHING for the palate to be desired.
PRICE: $15
2nd dish: muscles in a tomato sautee.
 -muscles: NOT fresh, overcooked, and cold.
 -tomato sautee: or should I say, 'tomato sautee?'
PRICE: $12
SERVICE: we were sitting at the bar. Not really much to expect ordering from the bartender, I expect him to know drinks. Not food. Expectations were met. He was pleasant, responsive, let us know that our dinner was coming right up (20 minutes after the entree's were done). Asked how our entree's were.
FOOD main course: I ordered the special-sea bass and vegetables-literally, that is how it was described to me from the bartender. My partner ordered clam linguini? I know, not my first choice either.
 My Sea bass with vegetables: WOW! what a variety of tastes. I had a good sized portion of sea bass with its own entourage of vegetables; spaghetti squash with brown sugar, asparagus, turnip, potato wedges, red boiled cabbage, and spinach. The sea bass was NOT fresh. I could barely even call it sea bass - its taste and texture resembled more like marlin, or shark - tuff, dry, previously frozen and still raw in the middle. NOT yummy. I gagged when the mixture of boiled red cabbage juice and over-sweetened spaghetti squash inadvertently mingled with my 'sea bass' prior to it entering my mouth. I'm not even going to get into how the veggies tasted... what more can I say but, 6 different vegetables??? of 6 extremely different tastes??? all mingled together with... FISH! "What the hell is this 'chef' thinking?"
PRICE: $29
My partner's dish is less dramatic. Linguini noodles, over cooked, sticking together. Sauce... hmmm some was there, I think. Clams, 4. Taste... bland-bland-bland. Bland.
PRICE: $18
TOTAL PRICE: $82.80
Last/lasting IMPRESSION: Sometimes, a restaurant can be a welcoming suprise, a "better than expected" experience, if you will. This was not the case. The reason for this review at 345am? The lasting impression? The appropriate word to use here for my discomfort would be - GAStronomy. 
So, the overall rating of the aptly named 'poor italian'? They do not disappoint.
We made a 630pm reservation on a weekday. The restaurant was PACKED. Like most people, we were unable to find parking in their parking and did streetside parking in the neighourhood.
The free bread was okay but not freshly baked. (Sorry,I'm used to getting freshly baked bread at Italian & French restaurants.)
The oyster soup was GREAT. So was their Calamari and Spicy Sausage. After that we waited some 45min for our entrees. Lasagne was mediocre; I'm sure we cooked better at home. The Osso Bucco was underseasoned and the accompanying risotto was very slightly undercooked and flat. 
The prices are definitely more affordable than other restaurants in downtown Vancouver. The portion sizes are generous. It was a little too dark for me to appreciate the ambience. I could hardly read the menu! (Hey they published their lunch and dinner menu online!)
I would go again on a quieter day. I'm sure their food and service would be better then!
After seeing all the mixed reviews, I was a little apprehensive about going here but my boyfriend booked us a table for New Years Eve, which was of course a set menu. 
The valet option was nice but definitely mandatory due to the small parking lot. The restaurant is small but nicely decorated except for the plain ceilings. 
The staff was nice and attentive; the only downfall is when the bartender (nicely) rushed us a bit due to seating times (set seating for New Years' Eve)
The food was good, it was a set menu with 5 plates and a entree option. 
The first plate was a antipasto platter which was phenominal, probably one of the best we've ever had due to the great selection.
The bread at the table had a nice variety, but could have used some oil and balsamic on the table.
The second plate was a trio of homemade pasta which was alright, it wasn't anything spectacular but it was a nice touch.
The third plate was a salad of some sort but it was so boring no one ate it
The fourth plate was our entree of choice: rack of lamb, veal medallions, Sea Bass, Salmon, and Steak. Being vegetarian, they made a platter of mixed veg for me which was huge and very flavourful. They even made a couple eggplant parmesans which they don't even have on the regular menu.
The fifth plate was Tiramisu which was DIVINE!!! Real custard, perfectly drenched ladyfingers, heavy expresso taste and real chocolate curls on top. Probably one of the best i've ever had. 
The experience was good, not the best pasta i've ever had, but we'll definitely come back to try the real menu!
Tomaso's dining room is simple but nice. The owner included his standard cherubs on the ceiling!
There is a bar that's not very separated from the dining room. TVs in upscale restaurants bug me.
This bar was not a 'meat market'. It seemed like just a few friends meeting for a happy hour snack.
A sign read that appetizers were half price until 7 p.m., but that only applies to the bar area. :-(
The bread at Tomaso's was a disappointment. Not warm, crust not crunchy.
I feel that places that serve olive oil for bread should have fresh ground pepper. None offered.
While we were there, a couple came in, sat down, looked at the menu and left. Sticker shock.
This place seems to attract more of a middle aged crowd. I guess that's who can afford it!
The entrees were excellent, and overshadowed those small negatives that were minor in comparison.
Of all the Bianco restaurants, Italian restaurant is by far my favorite.  It is the best of all three worlds; pizza, pasta and sandwiches, all with the familiar Chris Bianco style of fresh, local ingredients and food made from beginning to end all in house.  
I would definitely say the worst thing about the restaurant is trying to decide what you want to eat!  You could always do what I did though and go with people who love to share!  We had three things the day I went for lunch: Josh's foraging fowls chicken salad with fingerling potato salad, house made mozzarella and prosciutto de Parma, and a special which included fresh made orecchiette pasta with sausage.  This was definitely one of those meals where you did not know what to eat first, because you weren't sure which dish you wanted to last the longest!
Chef John Hall is also a great addition to the newest Bianco restaurant since his farm-to-table background is right in line with the restaurant's concept.  Hiring him was definitely a smart move on their behalf.
Sincerely looking forward to my next meal at one of my favorite Phoenix restaurants!
Giovanni's is located in this little building kinda in the middle of nowhere. It could be hard to find if you are not familiar with Frisco, but it is right off Preston, so it's not difficult to get to.
The decor is very warm and welcoming.  It is very family friendly and makes you excited to have some good Italian food.  And the food is GOOD! The eggplant parm is sooooo freaking good and you get a ton of it!  I have never had a bad pasta there either.  The calamari is a little, meh, but not bad for the price. I am completely in love with the house dressing. I don't know what it is, but it is fabulous! Overall this place is awesome!
This small family restaurant is a wonderful find. It has a well deserved reputation such that even early evening the place was packed with people straight from work and post-shopping.
Although a pretty small place it is quaint & authentic. The photos on the wall indicate it is the eatery of choice for celebrity visitors to the capital.
I started with the bruschetta served on olive oil drenched bread covered with fresh, uncooked tomatoes. It was delicious. My son was equally delighted with his garlic bread. For mains I went for the lasagne whilst he went for Spaghetti Bolognese. I can honestly say it was the best lasagne I had ever tasted and my boy was very pleased with his choice.
For desserts we tried what turned out to be a huge portion of home made tiramisu and chocolate profiteroles. Wonderful.
Added to this was impeccable, friendly service we will definitely be back.
Giovanni's opened in Barnstaple in March 1999 and has been run by Mr Vincenzo Ferracuti from Rome and Adriano, who has been the chef from day one. They have recently been awarded a 5 star Food Hygiene Certificate and are 'Selected Restaurant' 2009 Certificate holders for recognition of their high standards of presentation and service that they provide.  
At Giovannis Italian Restaurant you can enjoy the true taste of Italy by savouring a light snack from authentic Italian Pasta or Pizza's to spending an evening at Giovanni's unwinding from everyday stresses of life. Whether it be a meal with a friend or family, to business lunches, pre Theatre meals, to celebrating a loved ones special occassion. You'll feel truly spoilt by the care and attention that we offer to our customers.   
Offering a wonderful eating or drinking experience, Giovanni's is undoubtedly one of the most popular places to eat before taking in a show at The Queens Theatre which is situated directly opposite.To save time you can pre-order your meal, so that you can relax and enjoy your time with family and friends, before enjoying an evening of entertainment of your choice.   
My Italian restaurant here in Solihull has an authentic Italian cuisine personally created by my own hand. Our management is also Italian with many years of experience providing the finest traditional Italian food.
I came from Venice in the north of Italy and first trained at a hotel and catering school in Switzerland, followed by a period of experience in Austria before finally coming to England in 1969. I then worked at the Cafe Royal in London where I met my wife Mandy.
We owned Giovanni’s award winning restaurant in Kings Heath for 15 years before opening Giovanni’s, Dickens Heath in November 2005.
I run an authentic italian restaurant serving fabulous food in lovely relaxed surroundings in Dickens Heath, Solihull. So if you are arranging a business lunch or a family get together give me a call.
We needed a restaurant for a family get-together and found Giovanni's on the internet. The food was excellent and the service quick and friendly. Thank you for a great meal. 
Having read all the great reviews I was expecting hood things and Giovanni's did not disappoint! Nine of us went for a meal here and we were very well looked after! We all had a starter and a main and the food was superb quality and delicious. The staff were very helpful and attentive. The restaraunt has a great atmosphere and authentic feel. Highly recommend this restaraunt. Will definatley be returning. 
Tucked in a tiny alley called Goodwin's Court was a hole in the wall Italian restaurant called Giovanni's, and if you ever find yourself in London, don't leave without eating here. Run by the two craziest Italian guys we were halfway between romantic quiet dinner setting and laughing hysterically at their quiet comedy routine. Taking a neighboring table's order too literally they brought up a joke dish before presenting them with their actual meal, dancing together to loud Pavarotti opera music, and dimming the lights in 15 minute increments from cafeteria lighting to almost purely candlelight, and joking "why don't you just decide!" when I was having a hard time ordering. He made us feel like we were just part of his big, silly Italian family and served us one of the best meals we've ever had. Light, tomato-y and perfectly herbed: the way Italian food should be. 
Giovanni's is a very average restaurant, but the pricing on the menu suggests otherwise. The whole meal came to £95 which was an absolute rip off for what was essentially a extremely boring meal. My lamb shanks were dry and the vegetables were microwaved and my friends steak was a cheap cut even though it cost £28.
Giovanni's isn't a terrible restaurant it just charges way to much for what it delivers. If I go and have a £48 per head meal I generally get great atmosphere, great service and great food, which I got none of at Giovanni's.
And as there was only two other people in there at 8pm on a Friday night in old street in a restaurant that has a capacity of about a hundred I don't think I'm the only one to think this!
I'd definitely give it a miss, there's too many good restaurants in London. 
Great ambiance, very cosy and convenient for theatre but that's about it. Extremely friendly and kind staff but .....no service. For Italian food cook at home rather than try this place. It took 3 plus requests for water and bread which was industrial and tasteless, over 20 minutes plus multiple requests just to get to the next course and about half the time the poor staff were calling down the dumbwaiter to the kitchen to inquire about where the next missing order was. The grilled vegetables were ok but the angel hair pasta was lumpen with matted cheese and what looked like old bacon from the morning and were accompanied by overboiled or steamed vegetables of no particular taste . Even the two ice cream desert was less than a scoop each. If you can't can't get vanilla and chocolate ice cream right to top of a disappointing meal then? I must say the staff really were terrifically kind but are not watching the store. This would not take much to fix but the kitchen needs an upgrade and staff much more training. Probably a great place for a bottle of wine and talk however. Pay attention and maybe they can turn this around ? One holds one's breath. 
I was looking forward to eating at Giovanni's but I'm sorry to say that this place was a big disappointment.
Me and a friend went for dinner here, I've walked past this restaurant a few times and it looks like it could be one of London's gems, small, cosy and family run. We arrived at the restaurant on time, when we entered the restaurant the owner was having a conversation with one of his chefs, he looked at us when we walked in, then looked away and carried on his conversation and left us waiting while he finished what he was saying. When we eventually got his full attention I told him we had a table booked for 8pm, he sat us in the worst table possible - the cramped one nearest to the door. My friend wasn't even sitting opposite me, he was sitting on my left. This set the tone for the rest of the time we spent in the restaurant as it was downhill from this point on.
The food is average to say the least apart from our pasta starter which was very good. For the main course I had the meat rolls in a tomato sauce which were dry in the middle, my friend ordered sword fish which was very small. We ordered a side order of potatoes which was one potato sliced, fried and over salted. For desert we both ordered Tiramisu which was just OK. The wine is extremely overpriced, £35 for a bottle of very average Pinot Grigio!
When the wine was brought to our table and I tasted it, I mentioned that it wasn't that cold and could they put it on ice, the owner jumped down my throat saying that's how wine should be at 37 degrees, or you can't taste the grape. I prefer to drink white wine a bit colder and as a customer shouldn't be challenged if it doesn't agree with the owner's preferences - I found this highly unprofessional.
When we were eating our dinner one of the other dinners was paying the bill at the bar area (right next to us), my friend overheard the owner say to the paying customer that is hard to run a restaurant these days because there are so many cookery programmes on T.V and everyone thinks they're an expert on food. Well, the fact of the matter is that the food at Giovanni's is mediocre, when people go out to a restaurant and pay £50+ a head they expect food that is better than something they can knock up at home themselves without much effort.
We left Giovanni's with a bad taste in our mouths as the food and wine were both mediocre and overpriced, we didn't even feel welcomed or valued as customers. Giovanni's is big expensive let down, we would of had a better meal if we chose to eat in one of the Italian chain restaurants you find around central London. 
The italian in ilfracombe is a lovely place,the staff are really friendly and the service is fantastic.Have been there a few times now with different people and everyone all enjoyed their meals.It has a really chilled out comfortabe atmosphere. Great menu at a great price.Had a meal there for a 21st birthday too and they were very helpful put up decorations and brought out the cake. Would highly recommend the place!
Giovanni's is our favorite restaurant. This food is authentic Italian prepared by a wonderful Italian family many, many years in the business. There is no better value around for the quality of food you receive. The lasagna is the best I've ever had (with extra cheese melted on top), and I used to live in NY! Their Veal Picata is the stuff of dreams. The service is prompt and friendly, the food always fresh, and the restaurant always very clean. As in other good restaurants during "high season", Giovanni's can become crowded in the evenings, and sometimes there is a short wait, but the food is well worth the wait, if there is one. I most highly recommend Giovanni's to everyone.
This was my first try at this Ristorante that I didn't know was in existence. We just saw it driving through the Home Depot Parking lot in Palm Beach Gardens on West Northlake Blvd. It is almost adjacent to Home Depot. The aroma when you walk in is pure Italian just like you mother's kitchen used to smell. I felt right at home. The food was great, the service was excellent, the portions were as large as (almost) anyone could eat, presentation was excellent, the little ball shaped onion roll poppers were great, the cannoli was excellent and the price was reasonable. The owner was a great hostess, strict business, not aloof and as friendly and nice as your mother. I will definitely go back, take friends back with me and know they will enjoy a welcome surprise at this little hidden treasure.
We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.
Thursday night and trade was brisk.
It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming.
We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.
We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks – a glass of white wine and a beer for me.
We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.
Decisions, decisions ...
For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio – mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.
For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo – grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.
Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.
Tina came to take our orders.
As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening’s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.
Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?
First of all the greeting is friendly and once shown your table you are informed in detail as to what is on the specials board i.e. not on the main menu. This sets an interesting start and you are already starting to enjoy your evening. Next the drinks and then for your choices to eat there were 4 in our party and we all had something different and all agreed it was of very good quality. For my main I had Risotto ai Fruitti de Mare which was excellent and was better than anything I had in Rome last year. Enjoyed the visit which is something I did not do under previous owners - worth a visit.
This small friendly Italian restaurant is just what you want, great food excellently prepared and served by extremely friendly polite staff, a warm welcome always awaits you. The husband and wife team are excellent, Paolo an Italian is an amazing chef, Tina the hostess is so nice and helpful, a great team and their staff cannot do enough for you. Price wise excellent and food, the menu is so varied that there is something to suit everyone and everything is prepared fresh after you place your order. Please go and try this small intimate enjoyable Italian restaurant, we are sure you will not be dissapointed.
Booked a table on Saturday afternoon for that night. When we arrived the bar staff looked confused and said we werent on their list. Nevertheless, we were lead to our table and seated. After receiving our menus (and the specials on a piece of bill paper), we ordered 10-15 minutes later. The starter was average for how much they cost (£7 for pate) and staff were then slow to clear our plates (although there seemed to be plenty of staff there). The main course was enjoyed by all. Again staff were slow to clear plates and after nearly waiting twenty minutes for the dessert menu, we had to ask the manageress for it - our first interaction with her that evening. I have been to the restaurant a couple of times before and she has made a couple of off-hand comments. On this occasion, after she brought the menu over, she again made a remark, much to the bemusement of the whole table. After a terrible evening of bad service we were charged for two desserts when we only had one - a dessert advertised was different to the one they actually had and so was cancelled. once this had been rectified we paid with notes and no-one took our bill for the change. we ended up giving them a tip as we had to rush off and there was no one at the bar to process the bill.
as much as the food is good, it is overpriced. i have had enough of the poor service and will not be returning.
From the moment you walk through our doors, you’ll know you’re in for something special at Ti Amo Ristorante Italiano. Our warm hospitality, intimate lighting, and elegant decor will lighten your mood as you choose your entree from a menu full of enticing selections.
When you taste our tender pastas, juicy grilled meats, bold sauces, and garden-fresh salads, you’ll know why Ti Amo keeps making the critics’ best-of lists year after year.
Whether you are looking for a romantic dinner for two, banquet facilities or catering for a crowd, or simply a great meal at a great price, Ti Amo has the world to offer!
This is our favorite restaurant in Tulsa. There are too many chain restaurants here and everywhere in the USA these days, and to find a white linen tablecloth restaurant with quiet music, low lighting, comfortable booths and great Italian food individually prepared and served by attentive servers is a joy. Veal dishes are superb. The salads are fresh and the dressings excellent. The lobster bisque is a touch thick but delicious. And the creme brûlée is excellent. The best date restaurant in Tulsa. Please don't ever close. 
I'd heard contrasting opinions about this restaurant before going but was willing to try it with an open mind when my friend suggested we go for lunch there.
Sadly I found the food tasteless and lacking in seasoning throughout. The starters looked great when they came out but actually tasted of very little. For our mains, my friend ordered a pasta dish and when it arrived you could see there wasn't nearly enough sauce for the amount of pasta she had. My main consisted of a piece of chicken on a very bland tomato sauce with a sad looking pile of rocket next to it, I expected more for £13.75. We didn't bother with desert so can't comment on the quality of those.
I know a lot of people who really like this restaurant so maybe I was just unlucky with my experience but for me far too much time has been put in to the presentation of the restaurant & the way the dishes are dressed rather than how the food tastes. There are better Italians nearby that offer greater menu variety, service and atmosphere for a similar price (Carluccio's & San Carlos to name a few). 
This is one the places that we have passed many times and thought that it looked interesting. We arrived at around 8pm and there was only 2 other couples in the entire place. It didn't help that within 15 minutes of arrive we overheard one of the other tables mention that they thought the place was a 'front' for something else.
We had fried mozzarella, which was very light. The marinara sauce was bland and tasteless. Disappointing.
I had spaghetti with sausage. I asked the waitress to ask the kitchen to add a little 'heat' to the sauce with some red pepper or something to give it a little kick. What arrived was bland red sauce over spaghetti with some dry sausage lined up on the side. I had to add salt and pepper just to get it down.
My partner had  chicken parmesan - not impressed. It was a pounded chicken breast with some cheese and the same bland red sauce that they seem to serve with everything.
We didn't even both with looking at the dessert menu. If they didn't add salt to anything on the menu, I didn't want to chance getting a sweet that didn't have any sugar.
We arrived at Pepino's around 8:30 pm on a Wednesday, and to my surprise we were the only table in the house.  I even joked to my wife "I reserved the whole place for you babe!". Which she responded with rolling of the eyes as to say "what have we gotten ourselves into?".
OK, let me start with the bad and work my way to the not so bad.  First of all, if you have a http://Restaurant.com certificate make sure to print it out.  This establishment does not understand the concept of an app on your phone.  I was forced to drive a few blocks down to print it out at fed ex...as I felt I was being taken. Secondly,  don't expect anyone to check on your table outside of your initial sit down and the arrival of your food (which is a tad overpriced).  Lastly, the corking fee is listed as $5 on the website, and the waitress insisted that it was $8.
The food was decent. Although, I definitely expected more for the price.  I ordered the chicken florentina...not bad.  I finished it, but it was definitely in need of salt. The artichokes were obviously of the marinated variety from a jar.  Good, but again not price worthy.  My wife ordered the spaghetti and meatballs.  This dish was surprisingly very tasty, and also made for some decent leftovers.    
The atmosphere was unique.  It was a quaint hole in the wall with an unusual tacky decor that sort of reminded me of a joint where Michael Corleone might stash a gun behind the men's toilet.  The booths were a bit uncomfortable, but the lighting, music, and  table top decor were quite nice and romantic in a strange way.
All in all, I may return if invited, but I don't think I will be in a rush to get back on my own.  This place is interesting to say the least.
My girlfriend an I stopped here for a late lunch today. On a Tuesday afternoon at 2:30 the place was empty. She ordered Chicken Alfredo(~$14) and I ordered the Beef Ravioli(~$16). The prices are quite steep, especially for a lunch menu. The Chicken Alfredo was typical. Pasta, Sauce, Chargrilled Chicken. It did not taste like a 14 dollar dish though. I received a Cheese Ravioli dish, even though I had ordered the beef. Deciding it was not worth making a fuss over, I accepted the dish and ate it. It good. The portion was small, just a handful of Raviolis were on the dish.
The service was terrible. Once we received our main dish, nobody came by to see how everything tasted. The woman who took our order stoop up front the entire time talking with another girl. We finished eating and waited for our check. After waiting several minutes my girlfriend went to the restroom and it was not until several minutes after she returned, that the waitress saw fit to put her conversation on hold and deliver the check. The bill was hand written. I was billed for a Cheese Ravioli at the same price as the Beef Ravioli, what a rip off. I will not be returning.
The first two times I ate at Pepino's I was actually very pleased with the food and the service. First time was Valentines Day - with no reservations made, we were seated, served and fed very well, at a quite reasonable price.  On another early evening visit, the service was great and the food was good, plentiful and reasonably priced.
Third time though, was not the charm. Because we both wanted something filling for dinner, we made our way to Pepinos at around 545 - 6pm on a Saturday. We walk in, no one pays any attention to us - the servers were seated at one of the side booths, chatting. I call out "hi" and someone from the kitchen seats us. Not a very auspicious start, I thought to myself.  
We got menus, and water. I needed the water because it was hot inside the place. Their a/c had not yet been turned on and the place was like an oven. Strike two, but well, lets see how it goes, right? On my way to the restroom, I inform the servers chatting by the booth that the a/c was off and could they please turn it on. One of them gives out an audible sigh, gets up and turns the a/c on.
The same guy from the kitchen who gave us a table took our order. We ordered an appetizer (mussels) to share, a spaghetti with meatballs and a lasagna. Pretty standard orders, nothing out of the ordinary for an Italian restaurant,
The mussels come out and it was good. So good that we ate it up in may be ten minutes. And this is where the dining experience totally goes downhill.  We have an plateful of emptied out mussel shells between us and were sitting, waiting for our entrees when one of the servers (remember those servers sitting at the booth, one of them) comes over to us and asks us if we wanted our check. Major duh. Without even bothering to check our ticket, or asking the people in the kitchen (you know, the ones doing the server's job) what the status of our meal was, she comes over and asks if we wanted the check. I plaintively replied -- "but we havent had our dinner yet."  The server shrugs and walks away.  Sigh. :-(  
The ame guy from the kitchen who took our order came out with our entrees.  They were okay. Not awesomely fantastic though. Just okay. I did not finish the lasagna - by then it had become so oppresively hot inside the restaurant and I just couldnt eat. I asked for the lasagna to be boxed up to go and if they could please include the bread that I didnt eat. The server says yes, she would box it up with the bread and ... would I like the check already (LOL).  I said yes please bring the check, she comes back with the check and the lasagna in a to go box. I check the box and the bread wasnt there. When I called someone else's attention about my missing bread, said person goes into the kitchen, without acknowledging me or my comment, grabs a bread basket and dumps bread basket in the middle of our table. Sigh again. 
Paid the check. Left with my take out box.  Have never been back.
Ti Amo is a small italian restaurant in the heart of newington, opposite the large festival theatre. A great place for a pre-theatre meal, it serves a variety of italian dishes. Risotto, pizza and a range of pasta dishes provide the healthy yet delicious meals that can only be italian. Be sure to try one of the range of desserts, there are some scrumptious sundaes on the menu, and they won't break the bank.
I’ve been going to this place since I was a kid and it has never failed to deliver, it’s got everything you could want from an italian restaurant, great food, warm and friendly staff, a nice layout and design and just an all-round great atmosphere. Whenever friends go up to edinburgh it’s my first recommendation and those that have gone have loved it just as much as me.
I went to dinner there in September with family and had a very nice time. Our waiter was attentive when needed and left us alone when we wanted to be. Our party of six had the lobster bisque and the mushroom soup. They were served steaming hot, as should be, and we all enjoyed both. I had the veal parmesean, with pasta and red (marina) sauce. The pasta was perfecty cooked and I love their homemade marina sauce. The veal was good, several thin cutlets covered with the sauce and cheese. It is hard to taste the veal under sauce. One of us had the veal marsala and very much enjoyed that. Two had the tilapia I think (I am forgetful) and one had the chicken with a vegetable and mushroom sauce and was very satisfied.
I know some people don't think this is real Italian food, but I would say this is old mainstream Italian-American style. If you are looking for the new, inovative stuff like Mario Battili, with pig cheeks and fried pig tails, this isn't that. They don't make their own pasta, but their sauce is very good and fresh, the type I grew up with in NJ, Sicilian style.
When ever I drive by there, the parking lot is full, so they must be doing something right. The menu is varied, they have something for everyone.
This is our favorite restaurant in Tulsa. There are too many chain restaurants here and everywhere in the USA these days, and to find a white linen tablecloth restaurant with quiet music, low lighting, comfortable booths and great Italian food individually prepared and served by attentive servers is a joy. Veal dishes are superb. The salads are fresh and the dressings excellent. The lobster bisque is a touch thick but delicious. And the creme brûlée is excellent. The best date restaurant in Tulsa. Please don't ever close. 
We arrived for lunch to a packed restaurant, after waiting for 20 minutes I went to the bar to ask the waitress to order drinks and food. After the order was given it was another 20 minutes before the drinks arrived. When the first course arrived an hour later it ranked as one or the worst we have ever tasted, the foccacia was like cardboard and the ham was tastless. Waiting a further half hour for the mains was not worth it. The lasagne was also like cardboard and the meat without spice or taste. The spaghetti bolognaise was also tasteless while the spinach chicken was barely passable. Avoid this restaurant al all costs unless you would like a Fawlty Towers experience. 
We went to Tiamo several times over a year ago and were sorry that it didn't live up to the promise it showed when first open; Congleton needs a good Italian restaurant. So we've avoided it since then, but reading some positive reviews here recently we decided to give it another try. And we're pleased we did! We went yesterday for an early dinner and although we were the only diners (it was 6.15pm though) we thoroughly enjoyed an excellent meal with pleasant wine and reasonable prices. The staff have changed (for the better) since we were last there and the food has definitely improved too. The ambience has always been pleasant and parking is available right outside - especially on a wet Thursday evening! Whoever is running it now is obviously expert; in the past the staff seemed to be more interested in talking to their friends at the bar than serving the customers. That is in the past and we shall definitely be visiting Tiamo in the future.
We returned to Tiamo for the second time in two weeks last saturday. We used to go when it first opened but stopped going for over a year after the standards slipped.
The restaurant is still as stylish as it has ever been. The menu is much better and the wine list more than adequate.
The service was great, particularly the gentleman who appears to now be over seeing things. His passion for good food was obvious when we talking to him about the mussels (which my partner had and were fantastic!).
I had the pigs cheeks which were superb. On my last visit we both had pizzas which were also excellent and a vast improvement on last year.
The atmosphere was good, I like the open kitchen and wood fired oven. The small soup tasters and limoncello with coffee (both complimentary) were also good touches. We are off there again tonight with friends! 
What is not to love here?! Its my favorite Italian restaurant in Canterbury and I love it! The food is so yummy and fresh. Local produce used and all really authentic. There is a large variety of food and I have pretty much eaten most of the dishes.
I take anyone who comes to visit me there as I love it so much. Everything about Pinocchios is just perfect, the staff are friendly and always up for a laugh, the food is incredibly mouth watering and the location is perfect. Its tucked away from the bustle of the high street, near enough to just be walking distance but far away to think you are in Italy eating genuine Italian food.
Inside is cute with low ceilings and old fashioned decorations but in my eyes is just enhances the authenticity of the whole experience.
Go here because you want something that is filling, fresh, authentic and good value for money. Trust me, you'll go once and will never look at Italian food in the same way again! 
this would have been the second time my husband and i visited this restaurant after we had a really lovely meal there earlier in the year. the place had hardly any customers and we were refused a table we had chosen (which seated 4) and we were shown to a small rickety table in the corridor, were the waiters were going to rush past.
at this point we decided to leave as we wouldn't have enjoyed our meal under those circumstances - very disappointed.
they might have a large party booked that night, who knows, but the irony was after we had finished out meal and walked past the window of pinocchio's on our way home another couple was seated at that particular table they had refused us earlier and the place was no fuller.
obviously we will never set foot in this place again.
When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes.
BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers.
I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience.
Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one. 
3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly.
I went there on Saturday night with my husband and we very underwhelmed.
Made booking in advance - they had no record of it.
Service is friendly enough.
Food looks very attractive but taste is lacking. My husband ordered fennel and orange salad to start and it was very bland. Same to be said for his rabbit pasta - no seasoning. I ordered a burger for my main - again looked delicious but meat was very dry. No one asked how I would like the meat to be cooked and when my food came they didn't ask whether I would like any sauces to accompany.
We waited over 15 mins for our dessert although they did take it off our bill.
I liked the decor of the restaurant but everything feels like a sales pitch for Jamie's empire - books, olive oil, wooden platters, tea towels on sale every where.
To conclude, yes lots of style but substance got lost somewhere down the line of his rapid expansion.  
We went there for my boyfriends sisters birthday last Saturday night. There was 6 of us. We were so disappointed... The restaurant was overrated, service was slow and the food was not up to standards. We were expecting a lot more from such prestigious restaurant like Jamie's Italian. We have ordered the wine and were waiting over 15 min for this to arrive. Starters were not so bad as there was quite a variety but yet again there was a lot of misunderstanding as the waitress didn't explain the menu for us. This was also quite confusing and I forgot to add that the waiter dropped the prawns on my friends shirt... After the starters we had received steaks and they were all mixed up. I had mine almost raw when ordered medium. My boyfriend well done instead of rare and so on.
The restaurant itself does not look very appetising and restaurant like... It looks more as a toilet on the train station.
We are definitely not rushing back there again! 
After finding and loving don vitos last year during our annual daytona visit, we had to go back this year. We were not disappointed, the food and service were excellent as before. The veal parm is fabulous, although we did not get back again before we left to try another selection, all the other customers raved about the pizza and the other dishes. The bread and salad are great, the veal was tender, and you can tell everything is handmade. It's a family run business, and they welcome and treat you like friends. My wife's favorite meal is veal parm, and she says their's is the best she has ever had, I wish we didn't have to wait another year to go back. 
Had an early dinner here today. Order Chicken Parm, Sausage and Peppers over penne pasta, Spaghetti with meat sauce, Cheese Ravioli and meatballs and Penne A La Vodka. The chick parm was the best I have had in years. I used my fork to cut it, it was so tender. Sausage and peppers was very good. Meatballs were maybe the best I have ever had (sorry Grandma). The home made ravioli were on par with the best ravioli places in Brooklyn where I was born and raised. It is now my go to place for Italian. Can’t wait to go back and try the Pizza. Staff was more than friendly. Heck, the owners come to each table and greeted everyone personally. They truly care and it shows. 
We booked well in advance and were given the what we considered to be the best table in the house. On the mezzanine level so you could look down over the whole restaurant. Service was excellent staff extremely friendly. The lower floor felt noisy but upper level much less so. Crispy squid starte was excellent. Ordered the "Taste of Italy" menu option which was fine but didn't blow us away on flavour. It was busy and lively with a fun atsmospher and some great retro background music. Loos are amazing. This was my birthday treat and I was not disappointed. Wanted to buy one of the wooden platters we have our food served on, all other sizes available other than the one we wanted which was the only slight disspointment as I would have liked a lasting reminder of the experience.
My partner and I went on a saturday around 4pm we didnt book, we walked past the building, "wow!! Lets see if we can get a table!" we were seated immediately, friendly service, we ordered a 500ml of the house rose to share, jug of tap water, jamie's italian feast 15 per head which included lots of italian bites for a starter (excellent!) and 3 small mains to share risotto, nonna's pasta (wow) and hunter's chicken. Loved all of it, we polished of the lot, just the right amount of food I thought. We had to finsh with pud so we shared choc brownie with raspberry and amaretto and icecream and the sour cherry bakewell with cream brilliant to finish off our feast. Bill came to £52 for great food 3 courses with wine I was well chuffed. Would book again asap. 
My wife and I went to Jamies restaurant last week for a special treat what a disapointment, the food was terrible. The cold meats starter was the only thing bordering on palatable, the risotto was congealed and cold and the pasta was tasteless and resembled the worst imaginable fast food mishap. The place was very noisy and due to the size of the hall it had all the dining ambiance of an oversized school canteen. The staff were polite but an underlying disinterest in their jobs was evident. Although we had pre-booked, after a cursory glance at the bookings from the receptionist we were given what is obviously the emergency table beside the kitchen. The lunch cost £71 for which I expected the tv Jamie output not the apalling tasteless fayre that was recieved. Manchester has many excellent Italian restaurants, do try them, Jamies is not one of them. Jamie really needs to visit to see what is being served with his name on it and not just count the cash.
We were here on 26 February for a reunion dinner. The welcome was as friendly as we remember from our last visit two years ago with friends. The food was delicious. We ate from the fixed price evening menu - about £20 per person plus wine. Great British/Italian standards executed with a lightness of touch that enhanced the flavours. We stayed "forever" on what was a quiet night. The waiting team and manager were attentive throughout without being intrusive. Thy took great care of us. The welcome, food and service made our evening even more special. 
Went here for my sisters birthday. Terrible from the start. Ordered a shandy to be given a pint of lager and a bottle of lemondae. Gin and tonic to be given a lime and soda. Asked for main course not to have chillis in it and it was full of chillis. The tuna pasta was so fishy that we could not eat it. Portion sizes are very small. Service poor drinks had not arrived before starters.
What a disappointment. Will not be going back.
We were a bit surprised that we could afford to eat here! Initially my husband was worried we were going to get a huge bill and leave hungry - no such worries. The portions were large and it was refreshing to go to an Italian that didn't serve pizzas. Will definitely try other restaurants in the Jamie Oliver family now that we have discovered we don't need to take out a mortgage to eat there! 
We visited as a family event. There was a 2 year old with us whom we order the sliders for. Her meal was served as though it was for an adult - crispy bacon full topping and a skewer through the burger!! which was all very very hot and took ages to cool down. The side salad was served diced very finely and in a kilner style tub - not easy for little hands to eat with and inevitably went everywhere! When the 'juice' finally arrived at the end of her meal, it was served in a wine carafe! with a glass tumbler and straw! not very toddler friendly, It was more aimed at older children which is a shame as the adult portions come is smaller sizes which older children could eat anyhow!. My brother order a Jamie's Burger and it was so charred that he couldnt taste the meat. The roll was soggy and fell apart and the flavour terrible.
The service was very slow albeit friendly.
Its a real shame as we were really looking forward to trying it.
Sadly, I wont be returning as there are far more family restaurants in Edinburgh.
The assembly rooms is an impressive location for a restaurant, we loved the central operations centre, it creates a real buzz. Generally the food was well presented and tasty, but I think the sharing boards are over priced for the quantity of food to be shared. For my main I have the deep fried seafood platter, interesting idea, great looking plate of food, fun to pick through, but it didn't quite deliver the flavour I was expecting.
The restaurant was busy, but there were plenty of staff on duty, so no excuse for the slow service. Sitting near the central area, we could see food waiting quite some time to be taken to tables.
However, we weren't in a hurry, so we sat back and enjoyed the buzz, we would go again. 
We wanted to visit Jamie's Italian based on his fun and creative cooking style featured on his television shows. Sadly his restaurant falls short of expectations. Our starter was a rather ordinary dish of cold cuts and cheese. My slow braised pork tagliatelle main was boring. My wife' wild mushroom and cheese pillows was tasty and above average. Please avoid the Rosso red wine as it is barely drinkable - maybe I had a bad glass?
Our server was rather indifferent and hard to locate at times.
The atmosphere is light and family style which is perfect for a casual meal.
All in all Jamie's Italian is worth visiting, but altogether ordinary. Just keep your expectations low. 
We were looking forward to going as we had looked at the menu online before we went and thought it sounded amazing. Initially we were shown to a poor table in the way of all the waiters coming and going form the kitchen. Then the starers came and they were okay, but the olives possibly were not the best ever as reported. Then the mains came and the seafood pasta was not cooked/or the shelfish was dead! they had served it with closed shelfish, this is a school boy error and very disappointing. The waitress was excellent and took both meal away and we were given fresh and 'cooked' food second time round. The only good thing was that we were not charged for our mains. Must try harder! 
I think this is a real shame, the restaurant seems to be going downhill because the management and staff are losing the vision of customer care. I have eaten there four times in the last year and have had a pretty mixed experience. Some fantastic food, some mediocre.
I have to say though some of the waiting staff are absolutely atrocious. The waiter on Saturday forgot the plates, the drinks, the bread and had to be reminded on each occassion.
The menu is a bit static also.
I hope you are reading these Jamie becuase they are letting you down! 
I decided to visit Pesto today as the idea of small plates for Italian food intrigued me.
As soon as you walk in, you are greeted by friendly staff and they will ensure that you know what is what if you've never visited before.
The food is lovely, and the idea of having several different Italian dishes is a clever idea, allowing you to sample different dishes, ranging from meats to pasta to pizza.
Prices are very good - about £4 per small plate and is very good value for money.
If you are looking for a place to try delicious Italian cuisine - tapas style - I would highly recommend a trip to Pesto. 
This was our first visit to a Pesto and I am happy to say I will be returning.
I like the idea of lots of little dishes, small portions so that you can share or try different things.
I fancied a prawn pasta dish but I also wanted Pizza. No problem, the pizza was 5" - this was my starter. I had a prawn/pasta dish which was lovely.
I can't remember the name of the dessert I had but it was a mango cheesecake type of dessert. It was yummy.
My daughter had the childrens menu and she enjoyed all of it.
Very reasonably priced. 
Went for a pre-theatre meal, and yes, as some have commented, the stairs are steep and the doors are narrow, but neither of these detract from the experience. We let the very pleasant staff know that we had a departure deadline and they worked efficiently to assure this was achieved. All in all the food we chose was simple, but was cooked and presented very nicely. We will definitely be back, either pre-theatre or for a more conventional evening meal. 
It was my wife's significant birthday so we decided on something different for a family meal. My daughter and husband had already been a couple of ties and recommended it. I booked on line and mentioned it was a birthday occasion. The old courthouse was an interesting venue and we were very warmly welcomed and wished a happy birthday a nice touch. We were shown quickly and courteously to our table and I have to say the service and speed of service was excellent. The atmosphere was quite boisterous with lots of large groups of people all loudly enjoying themselves but it wasn't unruly but quite difficult to have a normal conversation but it was a Saturday night. It was also a bit dark and difficult to read the menu. Food was average and more Italian style than Italian in my opinion but for a celebrity chief restaurant was ok value for money and a good night out experience. 
I recently visited Jamie's Italian Cheltenham with my partner for the first time, I have been to a couple of the other Jamie's Italian restaurants (Birmingham and London) and have never been let down. The Cheltenham restaurant just seemed a step above what we've experienced elsewhere. The manager sat us in the cooky court side surroundings, took our coats, personally delivered us a mouth-watering rendition of the specials and spent the time to chat with us despite running a busy restaurant. His passion was evident, and so refreshing to see in an industry that often seems to be slightly impersonal.
And the service remained at this high level as the waitress serving us was just as friendly; she brightened up the evening, making us laugh and catering to our every need. We ordered a big selection from the antipasti plank section (from her recommendation) and some pastas to accompany them, the food was as good as always.
Myself and my partner were surprised to see that Jamie's Italian doesn't have better reviews, some commenting on lighting and price. We found no cause for complaints in either of these areas. In our experience this particular restaurant is not only delivering in the food department, but the staff really make it a special occasion. 
I took my daughter to Jamie's in York for lunch as a treat. I was expecting it to be more expensive but better than your average Italian restaurant. We got off to a good start as our waitress was very friendly, knowledgable, enthusiastic and helpful.
We shared a glass of Prosecco which was very nice and reasonably priced. We ordered our starter and main course from the 'specials' of the day. Our starter, a small piece of bruschetta with a a tiny amount of ricotta cheese and a few salad leaves was somewhat disappointing and at 5.95, very poor value for money.
The special lamb pasta dish was reasonably priced and was quite nice. However, there was hardly any pieces of lamb and most of what was in the dish was rather fatty.
We did have a nice time and our waitress was lovely but sadly, the food was disappointing and consequently, not very good value for money. 
It is a pity. This restaurant is amazingly well located in the city center, the atmosphere is fine, and the menu is somehow promising. But, and this is a big and critical BUT, the outcome is as poor as in the nearest junk food franchise. A family lunch on a week day disrupted from the beginning. Very slow service, imprecise information about specials, more than disappointing food: cold-as-ice pasta, overcooked insipid ribs, tasteless salads. Two exceptions: excellent olive oil and very good selection of Italian breads. Not much.
We did not expect to find gourmet food here, but we never thought to go home hungry. 
Booked table for two for a meal to celebrate my wifes birthday on 19/02/13. Arrived on time, it was not too busy but stood around waiting for someone to greet us and show us to our table for about 5 minutes even with staff standing taliking to each other and looking over towards us. We were shown upstairs the table we were given were a bit like being in a cheap cafe - metal top on table was in need of a good clean - would have preffered a standard table and probably should have asked to be moved to one of the many empty tables. Ordered cocktails, starter, main course and wine. Cocktails very good and starters were great mixed meat on a plank for me that was positioned over two tins of tomatoes - unusual touch that answered our question why have they given us two full tins of tomatoes. My wife had a salad that she enjoyed and said she would have again. We had just finished the starter and the waitress was taking away the plates when our main course arrived to our amazment and that of the waitress taking away teh plates. Gosh that was quick she said when I said actually it was not what we wanted as we needed to have time to digest the starter and relax a few minutes before starting the main course. To the waitress's credit she did offer to take the main course away and provide a new one when we were ready but we just left the meals for a few minutes and started to eat them rather than let them get cold. The main course was okay but not teh best italian pasta meal we have eaten so this was a disappointment - I had the tuna penna pasta apparantly Jamies wfie Jools favourite it was okay but not great - my wife chose the crab rissotto - a first time for her to try something different and she said she really enjoyed it. After the main course the waitress now gave us time beofre asking us if we wanted desert and we both chose the tiramisu as the first choice for my wife was not available non left apparantly. The total meal for two cost just over £90 but was it worth it compared to similar Italian restaurants probably not and let down by the surpirsing need to serve you as quick as possible and get you out even quicker - this was mid week and not too busy so why the rush - would like to know what its like at week-ends probably like a production line for the meals. Would I try a Jamies Italian again - as there is not one yet in the North East it is difficult but may try again to see if it is a better experience probably next time we are in York or Leeds - everyone deserves a second chance but slow down next time between courses. 
Was all excited to vist one of Jamie Olivers restaurants, while on our visit to Liverpool on the 16th February. What a disappointment. The food was scarce on the plate, the presentation was poor, the prices were a bit extreme for what we received.I ordered Tagitelle. I don't eat much so I ordered the smaller portion. For the first time in my life I left a table hungry. My daughter ordered fish in a bag. When placed on the table the strong smell of fish was over-powering ( which should not be). When she tasted it, the fish was rubbery. I asked the waiter what type of fish it was and he said Coley. I would never buy Coley. For the rest of the evening she felt unwell. The only good experience while in the premises was the friendly service from the waiter.I like cooking and and consider myself good at it, what with having a big family to cater for.Jamie Oliver is promoting Sainsbury's cooking for less and under a fiver on the television. I cannot therefore justify how he can charge the prices that he does in his restaurants, especially in these econmic times. I will never be in a Jamie's restaurant again. The best place to eat is home. 
Jamie's reinvents itself seasonally and despite regular changes of menu and team it maintains fantastic standards. Having just become founder members of the gold club I took my partner for her 40th birthday. The service was excellent as ever but with an extra little special something. The food was delicious and we were blown away by the more than little extras for joining the club. Never ever having been disappointed by Jamie's - even when there have been teething problems they have always managed them superbly - tonight took the experience to extra levels. Thank you team - you made it a perfect special birthday. 




In the late 1800's thousand of Italians made new homes amongst the mills and factories in the run down area of Manchester city centre called Ancoats, or 'Little Italy' as it became affectionately known. 
Whilst the inhabitants became the pioneers of the modern day British ice cream industry they also introduced generations of Mancunian Italians to the city. 
Today there are over 120 Italian restaurants and pizzerias in Manchester and the surrounding area. 
Successful Italian Restaurant chains like The Olive Press, Piccolino, San Carlo, Gusto, Pesto, Croma, San Rocco, Felicini and Est, Est, Est all started in the area whilst there's hundreds of excellent independent Italian ristorantes in Manchester too. 
Whether you're looking for fine dining Italian cuisine or a cheap pizzeria, there are Italian restaurants in Manchester to suit everybody's requirements. 

It is very difficult to talk about national food in Italy because the various regions of Italy are so different. Generally, each region of Italy has its own particular types of food although there are some staple foods which are eaten more or less across Italy.  Pasta, risotto and olive oil all feature heavily in Italian food.
 
Breakfast Food in Italy
 
Breakfast is not a major meal of the day in Italy and the only food eaten by most Italians for breakfast will probably be some type of pastry accompanied by a quick cup of coffee.
 
Food eaten for lunch in Italy
 
Lunch is the main meal of the day in Italy where copious amounts of food are served. A typical Italian lunch in an ordinary Italian household can be a several course affair with different types of food being served with each new course. The bulk of food eaten at lunch usually consists of pasta followed by some type of meat dish often with a side helping of salad. Although eating sweet foods for dessert in Italy is not an absolute must, many Italians will finish off their lunch with some type of sweet dish or fruit. 

Dinner Food in Italy
 
Dinner in Italy usually involves the same type of food that was eaten at lunch except on a smaller scale. Dinner in Italy usually consists of either a quite light meal, or something like meat and pasta but with smaller portions than served during lunch.
 
French food in Italy
 
The food found in the North West regions of Italy that border France such as Piedmont closely resemble the food eaten in France. Amongst the typically French ingredients that are included in the food of this part of Italy are frogs and snails. The Piedmont region in Italy is also famous for its truffles, which are an exquisite delicacy that can fetch high prices with food connoisseurs. 

Austrian Food in Italy
 
Similarly, the regions of Italy in the North East that border Austria have clear Austrian influences in their food.  The Trentino Alto Adige region of Italy is particularly known for serving up heavy broths and smoked meats.
 
Food in the north of Italy
 
The north of Italy has very rich soil and a climate that is favourable to agriculture, making it one of the best places for the freshest ingredients for cooking Italian food. The Liguria region of Italy which looks onto the Liguria Sea is home to some of the best olive groves in the world. Understandably, olives and olive oil feature heavily in the food of this region of Italy. Slightly further east into the Lombardy region of Italy, people tend to prefer eating risotto to pasta and favour butter over olive oil in their cooking, perhaps due to the influence of the food of neighbouring Switzerland. 


Food in the South of Italy
 
Food in the South of Italy relies more heavily on sea food due to its proximity to the fishing waters of the Mediterranean Sea. Swordfish steaks are a speciality on the food menu of Sicily, while roasted pig is a typical food found on the other Italian island of Sardinia. 

History of Italian Food
 
The land that comes under Italy expands over a relatively large area. This is one of the reasons why we find so much variance between the cuisines of different regions of Italy. Some attempts were made to unify the cuisine of Italy in 1861 but a large amount of differences still remain. The culinary treasure chest of Italy has been influenced by a host of different cultures such as the Roman, Greek, German, Gallic, Slavic, Arab, Turkish, and Chinese along with others. Actually you will find that there is no such thing as one formalized set of foods that can be referred to as the authentic Italian cuisine. 

Authentic Northern Food
 
The diverse regional cuisine of Italy utilizes the products that are found in abundance in the particular region. The authentic Italian food from the North has its own set of particular ingredients which includes a generous use of butter, polenta, different kinds of creams, mascarpone parmingiano and grana padano cheeses. Other items that are commonly found in the authentic Italian food from the north is lasagna and fresh egg pasta along with risotto. 

Real Southern Food
 
The southern style however is quite different to that of the north. Here you will find much of the cooking to be based on the use of tomatoes and olive oil. Caciocavallo, peconrino and mozzarella cheeses along with dry pasta are some of the popular items of the south. When you look at the coastal and central regions you will find them to make use of ravioli, tortellini and proscuitto in abundance in their cooking. The regional differences in cooking are even apparent in Italy’s most famous food; the pizzas, as different regions have their own way to make it. 
  
Authentic Ingredients
 
Generally speaking pasta is the most authentic Italian food which is generally consumed as the first course. Certain areas like the far north however like to start off with polenta or risotto. Meat is an integral part of the Italian cuisine but it is not something that you will find on the tables everyday. The Italians are more into consuming vegetables, legumes and different kinds of grains on a daily basis. Olive oil too is an integral part of the Italian cuisine but it is available in different variations. For example the olive oil used in the north is more refined and golden in color as compared to the dark green oil commonly used in the south. 


Vegetables, fruits, grains, cheeses, fish and different kinds of meat are the basic elements of the authentic Italian cuisine. No matter what dish is prepared in Italy it is almost always seasoned with olive oil. An interesting element to rise out of Italy is its poor people’s diet. The diet that came into being due to scarce economic resources is now being considered as the ideal model according to which we should shape our everyday diet. Thus the Mediterranean diet is considered to be one that is very healthy.

Have you ever wondered what kind of fast food they have in Italy? Of course we have all heard of Italian cuisine being rich and diverse but what about the food on the go? Well, the Italians have a host of fast food items and joints that serve the best of Italian fast food. Think fast food and the name McDonald’s is sure to pop up in your mind. Yes there is McDonald’s in Italy but it is pretty much overwhelmed by the numerous local fast food joints serving delicious Italian fast food.
 
Why wouldn’t Italy have its own fast food joints? After all the Italian cuisine uses pasta in almost all its food and many pasta based dishes are served as fast food in Italy. Apart from the fast food joints you even have vendor machines where you can get pasta by inserting a coin. There is a particular type of sandwich that you can get through these vending machines known as “tramezzini”. Strange as it may sound these vending machines are situated on almost all the train stations of Italy. And you thought fast food in Italy was all about McDonald’s and Burger King.
 
Pizza & Panini
 
Italy is the country that is credited for producing pizza. Although pizza was initially considered to be a poor man’s meal made out of leftovers that were placed on bread it has now become one of the most popular fast food items. Naples in Italy is the particular region that is famous for popularizing pizza. Today however loads of fast food joints specializing in preparing different varieties of pizzas are situated all over the country. Amongst the leading local fast food joint is Spizzico that is known for its amazing variety of pizza. The ChefExpress is also another popular name which has outlets on train stations. This fast food joint specializes in the production of sandwiches known as panini. 

Italian Pastries
 
A common feature on the Italian streets is that of bars. And almost all these bars sell pastries and coffee during the wee hours of the morning and throughout the day as well. This is the ideal Italian fast food which is quite contrary to the McDonalds culture because most of the fast food joints in Italy are privately owned business rather than chain stores. The winter season has its own breed of fast food items which are sold on the streets by vendors. Roasted chestnuts known as castagne are a common winter fast food item. 

There are certain fast food joints that have peculiar places where they are likely to be found. Like the sandwich vendors in the train stations you have restaurants like Pastarito and Pizzarito which have their own strategic positioning in the city. As the name suggests these joints specialize in the production of pasta and pizza. Another local fast food joint is AutoGrill found on rest stops on the autostrada. But it isn’t uncommon to find this joint in the city center. Hence we find that the Italian cuisine has its own special breed of fast food items that are readily available throughout the country.  

Just as there is a special art to preparing top class Italian food, there is also the art of eating Italian food. Over the years the Italians have developed their own culture surrounding the eating of their food. It is a well known fact that Italians are very serious about their food and why shouldn’t they be? After all, it is the food that brings together friends and families after a hard day at work in the office. This is why we find Italian people to be very fond of spending long hours at the table and meal times occuring at a leisurely pace over the span of a couple of hours.
 
Eating is the favorite past time cum recreational activity for families. Unlike faster paced societies in the world meal time in Italy is a time to kick back and relax. When the Italians sit down to eat they literally forget about the world and are in no hurry whatsoever to gobble down their food and get back to work. This is why the culture of Italian food is relaxed and slow paced with families getting the chance to bond with each other.
 
Family Meals
 
In cases where the extended family is being invited over for dinner the preparations get underway well in advance. The tradition in Italy is such that the hosts generally prepare a lot more food than could actually be consumed during the event. One of the strikingly different things about the food culture in Italy is that the event does not get underway unless and until all the members on the guest list have arrived and all the food has been prepared. You would often see children pinching little bites off the table in anticipation of the food.
 

The actual sitting down and eating process on an Italian dinner table is long, relaxed and spread over a couple of hours. To be precise the average Italian meal is three hours long during which the participants consume their food in a many as ten courses. Another prevalent tradition in Italian homes is that each guest brings with himself an interesting homemade dish as well which adds to the already overwhelming menu. Since the courses are so numerous they are usually small in quantity so as to be able to get a taste of everything. The food is served in large platters which makes it easy to reach but as a guest you ought to be careful not to stuff yourself on the first few servings because there is always more to come on an Italian dinner table.
 
It is fascinating to witness the culture that has developed around Italian food over the years. Even the people that are sitting down to eat on the table have their unsaid places as the elders sit at the head of the table with the younger generation sitting at the center of the table and the women rushing back and forth from the kitchen. Most people like to stay on and keep talking even after the meal has ended and the dinner party goes on for as long as there is an after taste in your mouth.

The customs and traditions that surround Italian food go far and beyond those tasty delights that they consume. Rather there is a lot of history and mystery involved in the do’s and don’t of Italian food customs. Don’t be surprised if you can’t make any sense out of some of the customary traditions related to food. 

Pasta
 
Take for example Italy’s favorite food item pasta and you will find many strings to be attached with it. Consider the different shapes of pasta that you get. Every region has its own different special shape to the pasta although all of them taste the same. Still to the Italians the shape of the pasta is something very important. It is common knowledge that the Italians have a million different pasta recipes derived from the many different regions in the country. Each of these recipes has its own special shape of pasta which cannot be replaced by another. Although replacing the pasta would make no difference to the taste but it will still be considered as an insult to that dish in particular and the Italian food custom in general.
 
Italian Coffee Customs
 
Coffee is an integral part of the Italian cuisine. Many of the different kinds of coffee drinks that we have around the world have originated from Italy. We commonly see people having coffee with milk but it was the Italians who first started the trend with the Cappuccino which has coffee, milk and an addition of milk foam on top. In the west and generally around the world you can go for a cup of coffee whenever you feel like. This attitude however will not be accepted in Italy as coffee is only a breakfast drink. You will be getting the glares and stares of the Italians if you are seen sipping on a cup of cappuccino in the evening or post dinner. 

Salad 

When it comes to the main meals there are many twists and turns in the Italian customary traditions. For example we are all used to having salad as an entrance to the main course. In Italy however salad is never served as an entrance except to a few foreigners who insist upon it. Traditionally the Italians take their salad as a side dish to the main course and never before it. 

Lunch is the heaviest meal of the day and is basically the main event of the day that has to be respected. Timing is something very crucial for the Italians and you will find that almost all restaurant kitchens close at around 2:30 after which you will have to suffice with a sandwich. Italians are very peculiar about their lunch timings. If for instance an Italian traveling to a foreign land misses the lunch time that his body is used to eating at, he will miss lunch all together saying that he missed lunch time so he can’t have lunch anymore!
 

Even when some Italians travel abroad they prefer to eat from an Italian restaurant because they do not trust the cuisine of other countries. One thing the Italians hate is when other people try and mix Italian cuisine with their local style of cooking. Adding ketchup to your pasta dish will make an Italian flip! Hence we see that there are many amusing customs surrounding Italian food.

When we analyze the trend of eating out there is no single type of cuisine that is as popular as is the Italian cuisine. Many nations including the Greeks, Romans, Turkish and Arabs have had their influences on the Italian cuisine. The Italian cuisine was formalized once the country was united in 1861. With the improvements in mass communications the world at large got exposed to this wonderful cuisine that stands as the melting pot of many different cultures. Italian food is loved so much that people have even started a new trend of giving each other baskets full of Italian gourmet food. For food lovers this sure is one of the best gifts that anybody can give. Considering the mass appeal that Italian gourmet food has a basket full of it is bound to bring a smile on anybody’s face.
 
The gift of Italian gourmet
 
Imagine loading up a basket with all kinds of Italian gourmet food in due balance. From pasta to pastrami you will be able to fit it all inside these baskets and hand them over as gifts to your loved ones. Expect the basket to have some of the tastiest of Italy’s own variety such as balsamic vinegar which is trademark item of the Northern areas. Minestrone soup is another classic addition which can be further coupled with different kinds of Italian cheese and special gourmet desserts. Giving someone an Italian gourmet basket as a gift is like taking them out for a treat to the best Italian restaurant in town.
 
The idea which started off on a small scale has become a huge success over the years. Now the interested individuals will be able to find a wide variety of these gift baskets with different kinds of Italian gourmet food inside them. The Italians make careful compositions using different kinds of Italian gourmet foods and each basket is full of tantalizing gastronomical delights. You are bound to find something that is going to satisfy your needs. If you are crazy about pasta gourmet foods then you can get a basket that is heavy on the pasta side. Similarly if it is coffee what you want then you can get yourselves a coffee gourmet basket. These baskets of diverse nature can serve as an ideal gift for any occasion.
 
The popularity of Italian gourmet gift baskets
 
Ever since their release Italian food gift baskets have become a huge success. The overwhelming success of the Italian food gift baskets has resulted in the producers developing a wide variety of these baskets with different compositions of food. Hence you will be sure to find a basket that meets everybody’s particular tastes as well as the budget. Pasta lovers will get their dream basket and the coffee gourmet lovers will not be disappointed either. Irrespective of the occasion an Italian gift basket makes a perfect gift for birthday, anniversaries and promotion parties. 


Almost everybody is a fan of Italian food and the only ones that are not are those that have probably never tasted it. This makes the Italian gourmet food basket an all the more universally appealing gift item. Although you will be able to find very exquisite varieties in gourmet food even the simplest ones will turn out to be a great gift. 

If there is one man who knows Italy’s countless restaurants, it’s Marco Bolasco, the 34-year-old wunderkind editor of the Gambero Rosso guides. Gambero Rosso started life some 20 years ago as a newspaper supplement; today it’s Italy’s most powerful gastronomic empire and includes cookbooks, a magazine and a professional cooking school. Besides appearing on Gambero’s TV channel, scouring the country for promising young chefs and overseeing the authoritative Guida dei Ristoranti d’ Italia, which awards Tre Forchette (three forks) to Italy’s top places, Bolasco is expanding the guides themselves. The most recent title, Low Cost, proves that one can eat well for just a few euros. Recently, I caught up with Bolasco at Città del Gusto, Gambero’s futuristic Rome headquarters, where the country’s leading tastemaker revealed his favorite restaurants and shared his thoughts on the state of Italian dining.

How has Italy’s dining scene evolved from the “one big trattoria” cliché?
 
The trattoria image pretty much held true until the ‘70s. Then Gualtiero Marchesi from Lombardy changed the game. He imported French nouvelle cuisine principles into Italy in the early ‘80s, and he’s still going strong today at his eponymous place in Lombardy. Not only did he make traditional flavors lighter, fresher and more elegant, but he influenced some of today’s most creative young chefs: Carlo Cracco from Milan’s Cracco, Enrico Crippa from Piazza Duomo in Alba, Paolo Lopriore from Il Canto in Siena. They all have that superstylish Marchesi touch.
 
What other factors helped create the modern Italian dining scene? 

The explosion of boutique ingredients and awareness of regional foods was a huge development. In the past, a southerner had no clue about balsamic vinegar from Modena, and a northerner would never have heard about burrata cheese from Apulia. The economic boom of the ‘80s helped the culinary scene, too.
 
What are Italy’s emerging regions?
 
Campania, particularly the Amalfi Coast, is numero uno for exciting openings. In the Gambero Rosso guide, the Campania pages have almost doubled recently. There’s money from the tourist economy, amazing ingredients—seafood, those vibrant vegetables—and a competitive spirit among chefs. If one chef opens a place, his neighbor must open a flashier one. Relais Blu in Massa Lubrense and Taverna 18 in Vico Equense are just two of Campania’s terrific new restaurants.

Sicily is another emerging powerhouse, with its own identity and rich mix of traditions. “New regionalism” reigns among young chefs like Ciccio Sultano at Il Duomo in Ragusa, who’s reintroducing forgotten flavors and ingredients. In Sicily, the wine culture exploded, and new cuisine followed.

In Piedmont, majestic traditional places like Guido in Pollenzo aren’t far from innovative spots like Piazza Duomo in Alba, whose chef, Enrico Crippa, used to cook in Japan and now uses those influences in his cooking. In the guide, we call out a tiny local town on our maps if it has a great restaurant, but in Piedmont, the concentration of fantastic restaurants in any one place is so dense, we can’t even figure out how to represent it graphically. 

What city has the best restaurants?
 
Sorry, Italy’s cities are not the best places for great dining. Turin is the exception: After a period of culinary darkness, its restaurant scene has become much more interesting. At AB+ the young chef, Alessandro Boglione, worked with [Spain’s] Ferran Adrià, and now he’s serving modern Mediterranean food at great prices.
 
What cities would you avoid at all costs?
 
Venice! The more stunning a place is, the worse you’ll eat there.
 
There must be a couple of places you like there.
 
OK, Al Covo and Met are very good.
 
Why are most of Italy’s best restaurants in the country? 

Great Italian cooking is anti-urban. Cities are for business lunches; for transporting meals, go to the country, which still has a connection to ingredients and traditions. Of course, economics play a part—who can afford crazy city rents? That said, there are now more great urban restaurants, like Milan’s Cracco.
 
What trends are you seeing in Italy’s dining scene?
 
Wine bars serving boutique salumi continue to multiply. And—finally!—pasta is in vogue again among serious chefs who once considered it beneath them. Paccheri, a southern Italian pasta like a big, unridged rigatoni, is particularly trendy.
 
You’re being sarcastic about the pasta. Is there any trend you actually find promising?
 
Yes, regional cuisine creatively done: lighter, more articulate. 

Who are some up-and-coming chefs?
 
Giuseppe Cuttaia at La Madia in Agrigento, Sicily, cooks in a simple place out in the sticks. He’s a wonderfully tranquil character who brings a beautiful classicism to baroque Sicilian flavors, as in his merluzzo, or cod, smoked over pine and perfumed with orange. The 30-year-old Adriano Baldassarre, from Il Tordo Matto in Rome, is terrific, too. His food is inspired by vernacular Roman traditions—offal, lots of lamb and goat—and is full of strong flavors and character.
 
What are your thoughts on the Slow Food movement? 

I am for good food; not slow, not fast. Not long ago, Italian chefs were embarrassed by their own cuisine—remember those pseudo-cosmopolitan ‘80s dishes like penne alla vodka? Slow Food created a new pride in traditional regional products, and so there were the cured-meat and cheese booms, and by extension, the enoteca craze. Artisanal salumi and cheeses are great, but is that really cooking? I’m not sure we’ve really found a replacement for the kitchen skills of our nonnas and mammas—especially when all the young chefs want to do cucina creativa and be on TV.
 
What frustrates you most about Italy’s restaurants?
 
Abuse of fancy ingredients. For me, a great potato is worth more than a truffle. One of the most memorable meals I had recently consisted of pasta di pomodoro, potatoes, zucchini and herring. It was at a place called Le Colline Ciociare, not far from Rome. The chef, Salvatore Tassa, is totally crazy, but he’s the maestro of simple flavors.
 
Where would you go on an eating trip around Italy? 

Alto Adige, near the Austrian border. I’d hop between valleys— Val Badia, Val Pusteria, Valle Aurina—and stop at outstanding restaurants like St. Hubertus in San Cassiano.
 
How does Italy’s food scene compare to those in Spain and France? 

At the moment, we are definitely more dynamic than France, though we still can learn from them. We have a real fraternity with Spain. There are a few similarities: the regionalism, the Mediterranean flavors. Yet the Spanish are more open to innovations, less parochial than we are. Traditional Italian cucina is so full of rules—adding an extra clove of garlic can be a drama—so we can’t move ahead as easily as they do. But there’s a beautiful exchange of ideas.
 
What do you see as the future of Italian food?
 
I don’t see foreign cuisines really taking off. Here, fusion generally means marrying regional flavors, say Sicilian and Piedmontese. To Italians that’s adventurous enough. The foundations for nuova cucina Italiana have been laid; ahead of us I’m seeing a period of refinement and reflection, not a radical break with the past. The future looks great.

Though food and travel writer Anya von Bremzen’s latest book is The New Spanish Table, she also has a soft spot for Italy.

We take customer's feedback very seriously at Pinocchio's and we find it very useful when it comes to review our service procedures.I do have to point out that you were not disappointed with the quality of our food which for us is imperative to keep this standard high even during very busy evening such as New Year's Eve. the restaurant was not overbooked , however we do operate a two sitting system as clearly explained at the time of booking and being NYE we have to follow the two sitting procedure and request the table back at 8.30pm latest . I would love to talk to you in details with reference to your comment regarding staff talking to each others and being rude to clients as there is only one member of staff on each floor and I believe being rude is not an option to solve issues with clients. Finally , with reference to the price you paid for a 2 course meal for 6 adults on NYE night , I believe is very very reasonable to pay £21.50 per person considering that you also bring your own wine and drinks. Most Italian restaurant were charging more than £100 per person with a dining time of 1.5 hours. Although we had to employ extra staff in the kitchen and paid staff double pay rate to make sure food quality was delivered to you we did not pass this cost to you as a client and we did not opt for a set meal with inflated prices to overcharge and inflate profits. 
I will address your review to all staff and this matter will be fully investigated to ensure these type of situations will be avoided in the future. Once again let me apologies for not meeting your expectations and should you wish to contact me for a one to one chat regarding your negative experience I would be delighted to answer to some of your questions. 

First visit to Pinocchio and will not be the last.
Food is outstanding in quality, choice, presentation, taste and portion size!
We sat waiting for our meal drooling at the other customers choice of food.
Each and everyone came out looking and smelling Devine.
When ours arrived we were not disappointed and the ribs are to die for.
I could go on about the different dishes we had and say how nice they were but to be honest just order what you fancy and it will be great.
The idea of bring your own booze is rare thaws days and I think there is a lot to be said for it.
Soft drinks can be purchased if you do not want alcohol.
One thing I would say is they should make this byob much more evident on the web site and in the restaurant and also the fact they only accept Cash.
Also, get yourself on Facebook and trip advisor and spread the word....not too much as we will always want a table :-) 
This is a gem of a restaurant and will compete with the best of the much more expensive Italian establishments.
Outstanding value on Tues and Wed evenings!
Warm and friendly service.
We will be back! 
We've been eating at Pinocchios since they first opened and always recommend it to friends and customers at our pub The Station. We took two "newbies" last week and promised they would love the food - they did and are now booking two family birthday meals in there too. The food is amazing and the prices are such great value that I don't know how they do it. Take your own wine or beer and no corkage, and the soft drinks and coffees are brilliant value. If you get chance, try the baked goats cheese starter and whatever pasta you choose, try the baked spinach on the side. It's one of Manchester's best kept secrets and I really hope that we will be eating there for years to come - some of the friendliest people, best service and greatest food you'll find anywhere. 

We take reviews as a way to improve our service and food to ensure every client is fully satisfied with the product provided. First I would like to specify that we are not a curry house and we do not serve any products sourced from any third party organisation , such as papadoms. We are a small restaurant that only sources the best quality ingredients from our suppliers, Organic when available and when in season and we ensure our prices remain competitive in the market to make sure our end users , which is you as a client received the maximun level of satisfaction. I will ensure you and I can guarantee you that no one in the Manchester area offers the same quality of food and ingredients for the same prices we do. I would invite you to look at all Italian restaurants in the Manchester area and make a comparison of prices and quality. I have worked in the most up class Italian Restaurant in town ( San Carlo, Piccolino's , Don Giovanni and Stock ) and I can assure you that we offer a very similar quality of product at a very reduced prices. 
With reference to the service charge for a table of two, this has been added to the bill as we have allowed diners to choose from our standard menu on our busiest nice of the year ( Valentine's weekend ). The cheapest deal I have seen in Italian restaurant exceeds £55 per person without drinks. You have dinned for the same amount , however for two of you.
I would like to thank you for your review and hope you and many more present and future clients will follow suit and these help as keep higher standards of service.
Should you have any further comments that would allow us to improve our service or your experience as a diner in our restaurant, feel free to contact me directly.
"Are you coming to Rome for a holiday?" the snowy-haired Italian sitting next to me on the plane asked.

"Actually, no," I said. "I'm coming to write about taxi drivers. And their favourite places to eat."

The man, an engineer and hobby archaeologist who was born and raised in Rome, slapped his hand to his forehead. "Our taxi drivers," he shook his head, "are terribili!"

He was not the first person to warn me about taxi drivers in Rome. Year after year, they are voted among the worst in the world. According to a 2011 EuroTest report by 22 European automobile clubs, "Rome's taxi drivers are aggressive, do not respect speed limits and traffic lights, and take long detours off the requested route."

In other words, if there was any city where taxi drivers were going to take me for a ride, it was Rome. But however naive it might have sounded to the Roman I met on the plane, I believed that some of the capital's 8,000 tassisti would show me where to find good things to eat in their city.

I based this belief on a steak. Five years ago I decided to climb into a random cab in Buenos Aires and ask the driver to take me to his favourite restaurant. After the taxista delivered me to a transcendent bife de lomo at a side-street steakhouse called Parrilla Peña, I started hopping into cabs in Buenos Aires, Berlin and New York, asking drivers where to eat and documenting my discoveries on a blog called taxigourmet.com.

In New York, I met two female cab drivers who showed me the way to Jamaican curried goat and Puerto Rican mofongo – and convinced me that I could drive a yellow taxi, too, which I did, for a year, chauffeuring everyone from hysterical brides to ex-New Yorkers searching for pastrami.

No one, my colleagues taught me, knows a city better than a cabbie. And four trips to Italy had taught me that few people know food better than Italians. What would happen if I tested these two truths in Rome – a city with some of the greatest food, and some of the most notorious taxi drivers, in the world?

"Buona sera," I said to the tassista who was parked, along with six of his colleagues, next to the Esso station on Piazza Albania. He winced at my accent and started rolling a cigarette.

"I'm looking for a cheap restaurant not too far from here," I continued.

"I never eat at restaurants around here," he said.
 The trio of 'pizzaioli' at Pizzeria Remo. Photograph: Alamy 
A tassista in a brown T-shirt with an opera singer's belly stepped out of his cab. "Go to Testaccio," he said. "There are lots of restaurants there. You'll find something."

"No, no," I said. "I'm a taxi driver, too. I want to go somewhere you would eat."

"Somewhere I would eat?" the cigarette-rolling cabbie said. He looked at the chubby tassista. They started laughing.

"Hey!" said the chubby tassista. "What about Remo?"

"Si!" said the cigarette-rolling cabbie. "Remo! They have good pizza."

"Can you take me there?" I said.

"You don't need us to take you!" said the cigarette-rolling cabbie. "Turn right at the signal, then left, then right. It's on Piazza di Santa Maria Liberatrice. There's a pharmacy across the street."

I'd already started to question the stereotypes about Roman cabbies on the walk to Pizzeria Remo and one glance at the Italian families celebrating on Tuesday night at the restaurant's pavement tables and one bite of pizza bianca con fiori di zucca – with olive oil, mozzarella, courgette flowers and a sprinkling of anchovies – moved me to outright optimism. True to Roman tradition, the toppings were spare but fresh, and the crust, thinner than the plate, charred on the edges, chewy but soft, was the masterwork of a trio of bandana-wearing pizzaioli who manned the wood-burning oven next to the entrance of the restaurant. The tassisti could easily have driven me in circles before dropping me off here, I thought, but they didn't.
 Layne Mosler in her cab in New York. Photograph: Rumen Milkow 
Were the tassisti at Piazza Albania the exception rather than the rule? The next day I walked to the taxi stand at Piazza Bologna, 4km north-east of the city centre, to find out. Rossella Falasca was driving the cab at the front of the queue. "You won't find Roman food in this neighbourhood," said Falasca, who has been driving for nine years and is one of approximately 1,200 female cabbies in Rome. "You have to go to Testaccio or Trastevere. But that way," she pointed to Via Sambucuccio d'Alando, "is a good seafood restaurant. I went there a few days ago."

Marco Magliozzi, the owner of La Fraschetta del Pesce, was amused that a tassista had sent me to his restaurant. "Our pasta boiler is broken," said Magliozzi, who worked as a fisherman and owned three fish stores before he opened La Fraschetta this March. "But we can do some antipasti, maybe a fritto misto for you." What followed – calamari with olive oil and lemon, mussels steamed with garlic, leeks and Castelli Romani white wine, grilled sea bass, crab and shrimp – were glorious expressions of what Magliozzi calls cucina alla marinara: simple dishes designed to showcase the quality of "our seafood".

After I met Simone Bellini, my rising faith in the food knowledge of Roman cab drivers reached fever pitch. The tassista led me to fantastic versions of rigatoni alla carbonara and trippa alla Romana at La Tavernaccia da Bruno – a family-run trattoria a few blocks from where the cabbie grew up, near the train station in Trastevere. He also insisted I try La Nuova Cantinetta, an archetypal Roman trattoria in Garbatella where he eats rigatoni alla pajata (with tomato sauce, milk-fed calf intestines and pecorino Romano) every week.

Reality hit after I took the underground to Cinecittà, the film studio where Federico Fellini made La Dolce Vita. There, on the outskirts of Rome, I hoped to find a tassista who could show me a restaurant that wasn't in a guidebook. Instead I met a cabbie who told me about a "terrible" taxi driver in Bangkok who cheated him, as he took the long way to the centro storico before delivering me to a restaurant where he tried to negotiate a kickback from the hostess in exchange for bringing me there.

Cinzia Perroni, a professional soprano who has been moonlighting as a tassista for five years, tried to explain the behaviour of her unscrupulous colleagues. "Before, some Roman cab drivers were dishonest because they were stupid," she said. "Now it's out of necessity. There are too many taxis and not enough passengers. But there's something really weird and really fun about this job. And I love to eat!" She wrote down the addresses of seven of her favourite restaurants, including Il Tunnel, where she's been eating risotto alla crema di scampi since she was a girl. "It's the best in Rome," she told me.

I didn't actively seek out female cab drivers in Rome – but they seemed to have the most interesting stories and the best food recommendations. Tassista Laura Piccolo, who studied mathematics before she started the job 12 years ago, was, I thought, a case in point. But as we searched for a trattoria she wanted to show me, she circled the same block three times – and left the meter running. When she found the place, it was closed. Was the cabbie trying to cheat me?

In the end we stopped at Perilli, Piccolo's favourite place for rigatoni alla carbonara. It said €18 on the meter, but she wouldn't take more than 12. "I got lost, honey. You don't have to pay for that!" She handed me her card: "Call me later and tell me if you liked the carbonara."

According to a very unscientific poll we did on Facebook, the winner for favorite European cuisine by a landslide was Italian. This may be due in part to its popularity in America – after all, entire aisles of supermarkets are dedicated to pasta and sauce.
 


There’s the simplicity of the dishes too – as opposed to French cooking, which to many appears “frou frou” and complex, in taste and preparation. Italian food is more focused on the ingredients rather than the technique, and tastes lighter thanks to prodigious use of olive oil. French cuisine relies heavily on butter (hence, those divine cream sauces.)
 
But don’t be fooled into thinking just “one way” about each of these cuisines. There’s no singular type of Italian or French food, but rather hundreds of local cuisines that are influenced by towns and even bordering countries. In fact – food from the south of France can taste more traditionally Italian than food from northeast Italy, which has more German flavors. There’s much more to these foods than spaghetti and meatballs and escargot.
 
France and Italy are countries of massive diversity – in dialects, topography and certainly food. These differences influence local dishes.
 
Italy is a peninsula separated from the rest of the continent by the highest chain of mountains in Europe. In addition, a long spine of mountains runs down north to south through this boot creating fertile valleys, mountainous forests, cool foothills, Mediterranean coastlines and arid plains. But these geographic differences still can’t explain why pizza originated in Naples, tortellini came from Bologna and Sicily is home to North African influences.
 

The explanation lies in the past. Italy didn’t have political unification until 1861. Many populations have occupied Italian territory, most notably the Greeks and Etruscans, contributing to both food and traditions.
 
New high speed trains in Italy begin running at the end of the year – quickly getting you to risotto in Milan and fresh fish in Ravello. This next generation of speedy trains can cover distances of 600 miles in about three hours. Sleek and stylish (as is most in Italy) these are true ergonomic machines: with train floors four inclues lower than on traditional trains and a reduction in traveling noise. Not to mention Wi-Fi and a cinema carriage for movie watching.
 
So put down that box of mass produced pasta. Step away from the Italian chain restaurant known for unlimited breadsticks. And come taste the true flavors of Italy.
 
Of course, if already in Italy, You have easy access to France with the Thello overnight train, which is covered by the Eurail France-Italy Pass.  The Thello overnight train gives the ability to depart from Milan or Venice at night and be in Paris in the morning for French cuisine — which is more than wine, cheese, bread and bouillabaisse. French cuisine is incredibly diverse, thanks in part to the passion of the people for good food in all forms.
 
This passion is sometimes misconstrued as “snobby” in French restaurants outside of France. This is a mistake. Just like Italy, there’s an extraordinary range of geographies and climates which support the local production of incredibly fresh ingredients which make for simple preparation of dishes.
 


Brittany and Normandy on the northwest coast of France favors fresh-from-the-sea favorites, while the Alsace region has food similar to Germany – thanks in part to an everchanging border over many years of history. Provence features fragrant herbs and olive oil. The Alps excel in firm cheeses, and Burgundians are known for raising cattle for rich meat dishes. And what started as regional gems – Coq au Vin and foie gras – are now found all over France.
 
For those who favor one cuisine over the other – there’s a real preference. One of our employees so adored French food she ran off for two weeks to eat her way through the country and blogged about it for us. The love for Italian food has spawned movies, books and lifestyle changes (you know, like buying villas in Tuscany.)
 
Whichever you prefer, there’s no substitute for trying the authentic version. If all you know about French food is fries and toast, maybe it’s time for a visit. Come for the croissants, stay for the history, the art, the beauty.
 
Get traveling….it’s the ultimate taste test.
I have been to this restaurant on many occasions with clients and have never had a bad meal in it. Over the Queens Jubilee weekend, myself and my wife and two friends took the opportunity to visit on the Saturday night after having enjoyed Coldplay (a must see) on the Friday up at the Emirates Stadium. If you ignore the prices for a moment and just sit back and embrace the friendly, but not over friendly service, it does make you wonder what all these reviews are trying to get at. The service is excellent, the food was, as always first class, if not a little OTT on prices, but then remember that you're dining in the heart of one of Londons most expensive areas. I appreciate that it's not for everybody, but if you're expecting a slap up 5 star meal on a budget, go somewhere else. If you want to go somewhere however and enjoy fine dining, excellent wines, and privacy, give it a try. We'll certainly go back though not with the kids as I didn't think my children would actually appreciate the quality for the price!!!! 
I read these reviews before i went and stupidly thought - a competing restaurant... I was wrong. I felt like i was in a cheap restaurant in The Canaries, bright lighting, no backround music zero atmosphere. Food was so disappointing in comparison to the price, the starter was the only thing that was nice. Food was thrown up on plates, the chefs should really get a lesson in creativity.. No imagination. I will say the waiting staff were excellent and hands on, topping up our wine and water all the time ect. I expected alot more from this so called best restaurant. I got over the loud people full of their own self importance but no atmosphere and boring place to be really got me. 

There are 100's of other restaurants in London that are half the price and ten times better. Everybody said it was an experience to go there, but honestly its an experience i would happily go without. 


Shocking! I can not believe that such a high end restaurant can get away with selling such poor presented and disgusting tasting food.

 First put off was the very low torn chairs that we were met with. I chose the cuttlefish for starters that was tasty. The main dishes were unbelievable, corn fed chicken & vegetables; a big slab of leg and thigh with a plate of what tasted like reheated vegetables saturated in olive oil. The chicken had no seasoning, sauce or presentation. The Dover Sole was very bland. The potatoes smelt like an old peoples home. 

I thought the negative reviews were exaggerated, but it's true poor value for money. No thought, creativity or quality reflected in the food. There were two fleas hovering around our table which ticked me off even more. 

It's not about the money but for £280 for 2 people one would expect a better effort in the preparation, presentation & taste. Only positive was the friendly staff.

 Thinking of trying C London, save your time and money! 

This is the second best Italian restaurant in London (after the River Cafe) and in my top 5 for London. However it is not a place at which unsophisticated people on a budget will feel comfortable. Its clientele are the rich and include many Europeans and Arabs and the prices are high. 

The most important thing is not the glitz but the suberb food and, in my experience, the professional and sympathetic service staff. I come here a lot and always have a fun time and a good meal. The ingredients are of the highest quality, the risotto and pasta are sublime and the cakes are also brilliant. The River Cafe just pips Cipriani because of their creativity and ability to offer new things. But Cipriani is exceptionally good and deeply satisfying. 

I dined here last night for my birthday meal and first of all was kept waiting at the desk whilst the receptionist answered the phone five times and just kept me waiting. He then forgot my name twice. The food was indeed ok but not startling. We were constantly hussled perhaps because we were two ladies dining rather than minor celebrities. We had barely finished our main course when dessert was thrust towards us - once we had put the last spoonful into our mouths the bill was slapped down on the table even though we had not asked for the bill. The crowds of people were leaning over our table and the staff made no attempt to move them forward. Waiters constantly pushed my chair and kicked my bags. Food was whisked above our heads. Meanwhile the bill was constantly picked up and put down as I was not ready to pay this until I had finished my meal and wine. At one point a waitress was actually leaning on the back of my chair as she seemed more concerned with other clients than the ones actually sitting eating. This is supposed to be a top restaurant and Bernie Ecclestone did not seem to get his bill slapped on his table after his last mouthful so I guess unless you are a name this restaurant is not interested in you. Only wants to take your money as quickly as possible and get you out. It is expensive which would have been fine if the service was top class but it was like eating in a fast food joint. I refused to pay the service charge and when I explained the reason why the waitress found it funny..... Apparently the manager was too busy to come to see me. This place is frankly hysterical it is trying to be a top class restaurant which is something it is not... long way to go to get to that level. Staff need to stop being so arrogant and actually learn how to deal with clients. I have eaten in a large number of top restaurants in London and I would say this is the worst - don't waste your money - it is really not an experience you would want to have. 
Renato's is a local gem, tucked away in the far back corner of a mainly Vietnamese-dominated plaza. It's been there for about 30 years & I had it for the first time just last weekend ...& I plan on coming back again as soon as  I have another craving for Italian food!

Their entrées are very large & come with a choice of soup or salad & garlic bread. Garlic bread here is meh, but was pretty tasty after being dipped in my soup (clam chowder). The Italian salad dressing had a nice authentic quality to it, but was on the oily side.

Angel Hair in Putanesca with Tomato Marinara - I was in the mood for something acidic but not too heavy; this was perfect! The pasta was al dente, the sauce rife with capers, tomatoes, & olives. Delicious! I would order this again, if I weren't so eager to try everything else on the menu!

Gnocci in Gorgonzola & Basil Cream sauce - These potato dumplings were fluffy & dense at the same time.. dough-like. But the real star in this dish is the gorgonzola cream sauce! It is simply to die for & I wish I'd known about it sooner! It has slivers of garlic throughout & is one of the, most satisfying things I've ever had the pleasure of eating!

All the dishes were large, so they're great for sharing, or taking home for a midnight meal. Can't wait to come back here!

An Italian restaurant right in my backyard? But I'm surrounded my Vietnamese people, how is this possible? I have no clue how they've managed to weather the influx of immigrants that have taken over the area but bravo to them. This place has been around forever, even during the pre-Yelp days I always wondered how this place was as my parents drove by it.

My verdict is that it's a quiet, homey type of atmosphere that offers solid Italian fare and very reasonable prices. It doesn't look like much judging from the exterior but very warm and inviting inside. Pasta was al dente, sauce was tangy and fresh, ingredients were delectable and portions sizable.

Recommended for food and mafioso meetings with the Sicilians. If it's fit for the Godfather, it's good enough for you.

I've been coming to this little restaurant off and on in the past couple of years.  However, only for lunch.  This past time, my family wanted to come in here for my birthday b/c my brother's girlfriend loves the lamb chops here.  

We had a party of 113.  The restaurant was very accommodating even though we didn't have a reservation.  All the people in the restaurant were so attentive and constantly checked in on our table to make sure that we had everything we needed.  Great service! The restaurant is small, but there is outside seating as well.  

Appetizer: we got the calamari to share.  Love that the marinara sauce came out piping hot to go w/ the crispy, yet tender calamari.  

Soup: pasta fagioli was just ok.  I think there were just too much beans and not enough pasta.  

Entrees:
Lamb chops: delicious! Lamb chops were tender and not gamey.  There were 4 chops and the price was decent for lamb chops.  The meat was very tender.  

Lasagna: the lasagna was thick and drenched in their marinara sauce.  I didn't particularly like it b/c there is just too much ricotta cheese where it was overwhelming.  

The restaurant brought out a complementary tiramisu.  I'm not normally a fan of this dessert, but I have to say, it was super heavenly.  The dessert was creamy and had just the right amount of richness to make you want to continue eating and not put your fork down.  Another plus: it was a huge square.  Definitely enough to go around the table a couple of times to share.  

The price for the food was also very decent.  Most of the dinner portions are between $10-15.  And, the portion is big enough to share.  I shared my lamb chops and still barely finished.  

As we were leaving, the manager wished me a happy birthday and even gave me a bottle of wine to take home.  Now that is customer service! Definite would come back for the great food and excellent service!
This is going to a nice Italian restaurant I would want to go too in the future rather than the franchise (olive garden). This place like a hole in the wall restaurant on brookhurst and macfadden.

Lets get onto the food, Garlic Bread is free 9but you kind of have to ask for it), it is good but it felt a little heavy on the butter side, but can still taste some garlic it felt nice to have some marinara go with it, now leading onto an appetizer.

My Dad and I gotten Calimari, and I must say it was fresh, not frozen and light batter which just made it even more perfect. Which is how true frying of such excellent Calimari, paired off with their Marinara sauce that you can tell is homemade and not out of a can. Also comes with a uniquely cut lemon in half if you want the old fashion salt and pepper and freshly squeeze lemon.

I had Linguini Maestro (the one with all the seafood) it was great, everything was fresh and how nice it was, but i couldn't finish because of the garlic bread and appetizer. Leftovers but ironically forgot it in the car overnight. While my dad got the pizza, but he didn't enjoy it because of how the dough was very doughy, meaning it was soft and didn't have a crunch or firmness of a normal pizza like it felt like it was not even cooked, but did make for good leftovers.
I think this is by far the best Italian restaurant in Orange County,, it's a small hole in the wall place.. feels very warm and cozy. But the food is awesome.

Try the gnocchi. It's delicious.. with gorgonzola sauce. I often come here for this dish :)
Also the Lasagna is buonissimo!!

This restaurant is very close to Davis-Monthan AFB.  I was looking for a place close to base for dinner and quickly found this one.  We went on a Wednesday night.  Service was very slow.  I think they only had one waitress working that night.  The place was mostly empty, but still, slow service.  The place is very cute.  I ordered Joe's Special with a side of meatballs.  It was really good, but a bit salty.  Portions are fairly large and I only managed to eat half so I have the rest for today's lunch.  The bread was really good as well.  Overall I think it was pretty good!  Would definitely visit again to try other dishes.

Mama Louisa's is a great little place. It's been in town longer than Caruso's on 4th and is very similar, in my opinion. 

We went during lunch on a Thursday before grocery shopping. We decided to order from the menu despite the lunch buffet offerings. We were almost blown over by the air conditioning as we entered and I would like to add: I'm not complaining! As you enter a waiting area is ahead and you hang a left to the hostess stand. If you make another left there is a smallish cantina. 

Mama Louisa's is very clean. The smells coming from the kitchen offerings are sublime. We were seated in a dining room that is painted to look like a cabana tent with Mediterranean scenery painted all around you. It is very romantic! It has serious kitsch appeal.

The lunch buffet will run you $8.25 for soup/salad bar with pasta made to order. The baby was with us and they let her partake of the buffet for free even though we weren't. Two soups were offered: Minestrone & Italian Wedding. The baby loved the minestrone. She found some good stuff at the salad bar and then tried the shells with red sauce (huge hit after she dunked them in the minestrone).

I had the Eggplant Parmesan. Yum. Sliced thin and stacked then smothered in red sauce. For those that complain that Caruso's red sauce it too garlicky, consider Mama Lousia's whose sauce is milder and flavorful. I was so full after eating the Egg Parm that I didn't even touch my side of pasta that came with. Olive Garden-like breadsticks were offered, too. Their iced tea was crisp and flavorful.

I am so glad we found Mama Louisa's and we will be returning with the older kids & gramps soon. Mark my words.

Mama Louisa's has been a Tucson staple for YEARS.  The decor (inside and out) will let you know that this place has been open since the early to mid-60's, and that's what I LOVE about it.  It's borderline cheesy, but still tastefully maintains that classic cliche Italian flare.

They offer the standard Italian fare along with a soup and salad bar for an additional $3.50.  The salad bar is one of my favorite parts- it has a good selection (and is fresh and clean most of the time) but isn't overwhelming.  

Try the linguini- it's homemade and you can taste the difference!  Excellent.  The baked ziti is also good, but I like to order a dish with chicken in it to balance out the carb overload (although you can get chicken added to any dish).  This time I tried the Chicken Scallopini and it was good, but we went at the end of the night and I was disappointed to taste that it had been precooked early in the day and had been sitting.  The texture was just off and it was pretty salty, but overall, the meal was good.  

The waitress was very attentive and refilled our breadsticks and drinks very quickly.

Don't expect to be totally amazed when you come here, but it's definitely a good place to go when you want to support a local Italian establishment and try something different.  I feel torn- I recommend it based on Tucson street cred for how long it's been around and how charming it is, but I don't want to send people there thinking they'll have the most amazing food ever.  

The best part- as I mentioned we were there towards the end of the night, and a couple of the staff members who had just ended their shifts were sitting at the bar eating their dinners.  That's ALWAYS a good sign, isn't it?




A small, romantic and cute place at the heart of Nolita. Nothing really special about the look of the place, but when you order you will discover one of the best Pasta dishes in town - and definitely for the price.
Most of the pasta is priced under $10 and still, you will get fresh pasta which if you really love Italian food, you know it makes the all difference.
Highly recommended if you are in the area.
A nice and cozy restaurant located just a few blocks from SoHo! My friends and I ate here after doing some shopping, and it was a great place to sit down and catch up.

For starters, the apps were definitely not worth it. We ordered the gnocco fritto but were really disappointed. They just tasted like pockets of air and came in pretty small portions for the price. We wanted the meat one but the waitress accidentally gave us the cheese one - thankfully, she ended up adding on the meat on the side as a bonus, so we got to try both. I would recommend the meat over the cheese for sure, especially since they cost the same.

On the plus side, the pasta was a lot better tasting and bigger in portion. I got the bolognese which was really good, albiet a little on the salty side.

After reading the other great reviews, me and a lady friend decided to give it a try. There was a 15 minutes wait - which wasn't bad after the manager pointed us to the bar next door, came and got us when the table was ready, and let us bring out drinks.

The interior was very nicely decorated and quaint. The tables were packed in tightly but as is such with almost all NYC restaurants.

The food was delicious, and not too expensive (~10 an entree).

Definitely worth trying out!

We went to this restaurant based on word of mouth and the good reviews it received here.

Overall - Not a horrible Little Italy tourist trap restaurant, but also not the most delicious-from-heart of Italy food.  Great ambiance, service and desserts make it slightly above average.  Try their special dishes.  We went for more traditional italian fare (carbonara and alle vongole) and were somewhat disappointed.  However, we hear that that their specials are better and will go back to try them.  

Ambiance - was great.  Felt very friendly and homey.  Especially because the host was a friendly old man who walked around with a smile.  Warning: if you don't like to sit close to people - you will sit close to people here.  We thought this added to friendly ambience because striking a conversation with your neighbor was very easy to do. Not a small place, but feels cozy.  

Service - was excellent.  Our waiter was very nice and engaged us in friendly conversation.  He was not helpful, however, when we asked him about recommendations.  

Food - we did not go with the homemade specials.  Instead we chose the more typical italian restaurant fare.  She had the pasta alle vongole which was average.  Not bad but did not have the "something extra" that makes a dish outstanding.  And it was also not a disgusting Little Italy pasta dish.  He had the pasta carbonara based on a recommendation from the lady sitting next to us.  She said it was the best she's ever had.  It wasn't bad - but had better.  Again, lacked that something special.  

Desserts - all desserts here are homemade and all seem absolutely delicious.  We went with the zabaglione and fresh berries.  The dessert is like nothing we'd have before  - absolutely delicious and we would definitely recommend.  

Coffee - She had the cappuccino, he had the espresso.  Meh.  

It seemed like a good old-school Italian restaurant, so I finally decided to try it. The start was promising: friendly staff that you would expect in a family-run Italian restaurant, good bread, and an expansive list of pastas. Unfortunately, the quality of the food did not stand up to the high expectations. The lasagna was loaded with too much cheese and meat. Maybe this is the regional tendency but it was too heavy for my liking. The lasagna sheets were also too overcooked and were a bit flaccid. The amatriciana was also just okay. The penne lacked stringiness and the sauce was a confusing, heavy mix. I really hoped I this would become a hidden gem that I could go to on a quiet evening but it was not to be.

Notes - BIG servings for an average person so sharing is recommended.

You might walk past Queen every day and not even notice it...but that would be a big mistake!

This restaurant seems so out of place with all the other "hole-in-the-wall" bars and fast food joints on Court between Atlantic and Borough Hall. Once you step inside, it's like being in Italy...you're greeted by an attractive and friendly host who brings you to a table in the surprisingly larger-than-you'd-think space. Waiters in uniform bring you menus, water, and an overflowing bread basket (try one of everything...trust me). The menu is massive, and very authentic with lots of Italian words, and some over $20+ per entree prices...but don't be turned off by that. The food is actually worth it!

I ordered the Pollo Alla Parmigiana Served With Penne ($22) and an enormous piece of white meat chicken covered with the most delicious red sauce and still-bubbling cheese along with a side bowl of pasta was delivered to me. I thought I'd have to take at least half of the dish home with me, but no, it was SO GOOD that I embraced my inner beast and ate the entire dish.

Dessert was just as wonderful...my friend and I shared the Tortino Di Cioccolata Warm Chocolate Tort Served w/ Homemade Vanilla Bean Gelato & Fresh Raspberry Sauce ($8.50) and it was perfect. Just perfect.

I really cannot wait to go back! Bring your friends, bring your family, bring a date...just go to Queen!

I visited Trattoria L'incontro for the first time this Friday. I've been meaning to go for about a year and  half, having lived near by on 27th street. I have to say it is, indeed, worth a trip, and I will certainly go back. I think I may have built the experience up too much beforehand, and this is the reason I've given it four stars. I made reservations for 8:30, but not sure its entirely necessary to book in advance. That said it was packed.

The wait staff here is extremely helpful, and the vibe is unpretentious. The staff here wants you to have a good experience, and it shows. Service is top notch. They will riffle off a large list of specials, so be prepared to listen and discern. Any questions, just ask.

We ended up going with one of the appetizer specials, prosciutto and buffalo mozzarella stuffed with pignolia nuts. This was my favorite dish, really good. For the main course we split a veal ravioli dish, and pappardelle with rabbit ragu. knowing we would split the dishes, they were brought out on two separate plates, very cool. I enjoyed both, but would go with something else next time considering there is is so much to explore.

Verdict: Prices are as high as the heels in this place, but it's a fun scene and definitely worthy of a night out.

She says: I always dress "Queens" when we come here; I think we get better service. The more cleavage and gold jewelry the better! You have to make a reservation, I think they don't do walk-ins as a matter of pride (sometimes they have "no tables"....and a HALF EMPTY restaurant. The waiter always rattles off an obscenely long list of specials, which is pretty fun if you have the energy to pay attention. My favorite? The free sundried tomato dip, the stuffed clams, and pumpkin pasta. I always skip the dessert and walk around the corner afterwards for a cannoli at El Gulli for 1/4 the price.

He says: It's all right, it's expensive, but it's good--there's no denying that. My favorite? The stuffed fish.

I went on a very special date here. This is a cute, romantic place, with outstanding service and food.

We were given a nice table towards the back of the restaurant so that we could actually enjoy our conversation.  We were greeted by our ever so charming waiter who explained all the specials in his Italian accent. We didn't even open our regular menus as they have about 20 or more specials.  To start, flat bread and a delicious tomato tapenade of some sort is served.  We decided on the beef Carpaccio with an arugula salad that had a fabulous simple, yet flavorful citrus dressing and the lightly fried zucchini flowers.  For entree, we shared the short ribs over truffled polenta and filet mignon and veal ravioli.  Both were delicious but the short ribs and polenta were just incredible.  I was impressed. For wine, we had a Tuscany Montepulciano recommended by the waiter.  It matched our meal perfectly.

I felt that we were treated very kindly and that our business was appreciated.  I would love to return soon!

Trattoria L'incontro is an experience. The food and service are excellent. This is a go to place if you want to impress out of town company or a date. When you think of the classic old school Italian Restaurants from the 1940s and 50s, you think of a place like this. You just don't find this type of quality service or food elsewhere.

The menu has a lot of variety, but before you make up your mind- wait for the waiter to list the specials of the day. It's insane how many specials they have. I feel like you need to bring a notebook to write everything down! Fortunately, the waiters are very patient and will repeat any of the categories of specials. They seriously have at least 10 appetizers, 10 soups, 10 meat dishes, 10 fish dishes, and then all sorts of pastas and other items not listed. The variety and detail of the specials is phenomenal.

The food is amazing. Their ossobuco is the best I have ever had. It's fork tender and the marrow just takes it over the top. I've had it a few times there and always crave it. Their fish is always perfectly cooked and paired with delicate and flavorful sauces. The Mezze Luna is out of this world! Perfectly tender pasta stuffed with cheese, pesto, and asparagus. Really a stand out dish. Also the mozzarella is a must. Even their bread is memorable and fantastic.

The waiters are also very attentive, but not obnoxious. They seem to know the second you finish your glass of wine, but do not hover. They also have wonderful recommendations and don't rush you to finish your meal. Also the chef always seems to take some time to talk to guests and making sure they enjoy their meal whenever I am there.

Entrees can be a bit pricey, but you get giant portions and will not leave hungry. Definitely a must in Astoria.

Enjoyable place. Food is exquisite. Romantic. Very pleasant people inside. Knowledgeable servers. Pretty Receptionist. All the times I've been here, always pleasant.  Recommendable.

Great atmosphere and staff extremely attentive. The food is delicious. A VERY romantic setting. Can't wait to go back and try more of the menu.
Outstanding Italian food. It's the type of place you take your parents to. They have, like, a million specials every day there. The service is good.  Kudos to the servers for listing off all of those specials. The dishes are a good size, I always leave with plenty of leftovers. They have all kinds of Italian dishes there but my favorite to get there is good old spaghetti and meatballs.

Located in Greenwich Village, Il Mulino surely does not disappoint. The room is small and dimly lit, setting the mood for the overall experience. Service is excellent and appeared very confident in all of the menu items. The lead waiter even had the confidence to say if you didn't see something on the menu you wanted you could order it and the kitchen would serve your needs.

The starter courses for garlic bread, to baked breads to fried zucchini were excellent. Cheeses were delicious  with an emphasis on freshness and quality. The wine lists were solid including a very good Prosecco offering. The mains were per the usual offerings within the Italian genre of cuisine. However, there was a special focus on veal dishes both Scaloppine style and bone-in. I had the pleasure to order the difficult to make perfectly, but delectable veal picatta. The veal from a procurement perspective was excellent as the meat just melted in your mouth. Although not a heavy lemon flavor it was just enough to remind your taste buds what you were eating. The portions were excellent.

A starter ravioli was also ordered with a heavy mushroom influence. This dish was not as big of a hit as the mushroom taste overpowered what appeared to be a nice overall ravioli presentation. Although, the ravioli noodles were not light and appeared slightly overcooked.

For dessert, a flourless chocolate cake and an assortment of coffees were ordered. One word -- Excellent.

I highly recommend the Il Mulino experience.

The environment, service, and food were SUPERB!!!
We arrived 15 minutes late for our reservation. But we
called ahead and were given a warm greeting and
Seated promptly. There was no background music
to compete with our conversation. The food was
expertly prepared and presented. It has become our
favorite restaurant in NYC. We will dine there again
the next time we're in town.

Decor, service, and atmosphere all amazing.
as soon as you walk in you will be greeted by all stuff who sees you coming in.
Small place with very good taste.
They said their veal was amazing so i ordered Veal that was on special.
It came with born and some what tender .
It was good but i guess i was already getting full....
I had my favorite dish fried zuccini flower for my appetizer and it was absolutely amazing.
my friend had squid ink linguini pasta and it was just o.k.

Again, i love finding places that bring me back to Italy while being in Nyc. Malatesta is one of them. This is exactly how a local, authentic, italian trattoria would be. The lights are dim, the food good, the price cheap, cash only, and you can get to engage with the owners, waiters, etc..
Bing born and raised in Italy i am extremely difficult whenever we go to Italian restaurants and all my friends are now scared to suggest italian restaurants fearing that i will judge them for choosing a bad one :)
Well, this is a great one. You MUST try their fresh pastas, because they are like my grandma's one. My fav are the gnocchi with gorgonzola sauce. The portions are big and if you order an appetizers, a first course and a dessert you will probably have leftover, unless you are really really hungry. Prices are honest, and if you forget cash, there's an ATM at the convenience store right next to it. Service is quick, wine bottles priced well, and a perfect place to take out your date or make an evening romantic.

Malatesta has incredibly amazing pasta.  My only complaints are that it gets really loud and the entrees are a bit pricey, but other than that everything is pretty much perfect.  The pasta prices are reasonable, the carafes of wine are good deals, and the service is great.  I had the special spaghetti alla vognole (with clams), and the portion was huge and wonderfully delicious.  My friends had the pasta arrabiata, which was incredibly flavorful (although not spicy enough!), and the pasta alla chitarra, which was simple yet amazing.  We also had the spinaci appetizer, and it was lovely - almost undercooked (but not) so that you could taste the strong flavor of the spinach, yet not overpowering because of the oil, lemon, and garlic.  It's a big portion and drenched in oil, so I would recommend splitting it.

Notes: cash only, and they take reservations for parties of 4 or larger.

I would recommend this place if you're in the mood for a delicious bowl of pasta and a carafe of red wine. The spaghetti noodles were doughy (which I looove) and the pomodoro sauce was great. I'd also recommend the Minestrone soup if available. To top it off the servers were attentive and the prices were reasonable.

My friends and I made a reservation for 12 at Malatesta for NYE. I didn't know what to expect, but I was pleasantly surprised.

We started with a carafe of the house pinot grigio which was from a freshly popped bottle, it set my palate perfectly for the rest of my meal. Everyone at the table started with either grilled calamari or bruschetta, but don't be fooled by the "flat bread" that comes out as a quesadilla...

I ordered the homemade gnocchi in the tomato sauce to be safe, and let's just say that if my NYE dress allowed I would've cleaned out my plate. It was superb and I intend on coming back to enjoy it again.

Friends at the table also ordered the spinach gnocchi in the Alfredo sauce, which was delightful, but became too rich after a few bites. Overall, no complaints about our entrees.

For dessert, I indulged in the Creme brûlée. Well done, it was the perfect end to my meal. I wished I hadn't stuffed myself with gnocchi so I could have tried the tiramisu as well. All the more reason to return.

This place is perfect for groups or an intimate date spot.

No nonsense italian. reasonably priced and really nice. Instantly took me back to great memories of my italian grandfathers cooking. That is great cooking when you can be transported. I had the veal meatballs and penne pasta. Spot on in every way. My wife ordered the Spinach Gnocchi and it was amazing. Nice vibe, good servers, all around a great place.

Came here for an early dinner on NYE with a group of 12. The restaurant is on the smaller side and very cute inside. The décor and soft lighting gave it a cozy feel. The staff was very friendly and accommodating to our large group. From appetizers and homemade pastas to dessert and wine, we definitely ordered a lot. As I always do when trying out a new restaurant, I consulted with Yelp and already knew what I wanted to order before walking in the door.

Grilled Calamari - Very good. It was nice and tender, served over a bed of arugula. Not enough places offer grilled calamari, so it was good to see it on the menu.  

Spinach Gnocchi - Absolutely delicious and bonus points for being homemade (most of the pastas here are). The gnocchi was served in a gorgonzola sauce and had that melt-in-your-mouth goodness to it. I was a little hesitant about the sauce, but it worked so well.

Tiramisu - Pretty standard, but still good. I wanted to end my meal with something sweet and this did the job.

I also tried the bruschetta and ravioli. The bruschetta was lacking in flavor and didn't do much for me. The ravioli was good, but you don't get that much with it.

This is one of the best Italian restaurants I've ever been to. Everything is authentic and delicious. Cash only, but that's not the end of the world. The place is run by actual Italians. Your waiters are actual Italians. Everyone speaks Italian. This is a very good thing.

Decor/atmosphere/service:
The place is small, dark, and charming. High ceilings, but very cozy. The service is amazing. Your water is replenished almost instantly, and without interruption or annoyance. The food is served at a reasonable pace - not too slow and not too fast.

Appetizers:
The calamari is grilled, and not breaded. This throws people off, but it's delicious. The bruschetta is excellent. Caprese salad is also great.

Entrees:
Spaghetti con vongole (clams) are great, if they have them (although they could clean the clams a bit better, some were too sandy). The two best dishes on the menu are the tagliatelle al ragu and the spinach gnocchi. Both are highly recommended, and are authentic and delicious. The regular gnocchi are also excellent.

Dessert:
The panna cotta is seriously fantastic, as is the tiramisu.

Go. You won't regret it. Call ahead and make a reservation, though. They get quite busy.

I was recommended this restaurant by a coworker and decided to give it a try.

The atmosphere is cozy, not too loud but conversational, with dim lighting - probably a good place for a date, I'd say.  Service is okay... I wouldn't exactly call the waiter someone you could warm up to though.

As for the food...

Calamari - my favorite dish all night!  I was expecting the breaded and fried, cut up pieces of squid you usually find at Italian restaurants, but was pleasantly surprised to see that this one was different.  Instead, you get the whole "bulb" part of the squid, grilled to perfection, on top of a bed of arugula leaves with a lemon on the side.  Wonderfully seasoned and awesomely delicious.  I would definitely recommend!!

Veal meatballs - yum!  It doesn't come with any pasta or anything, but the portion is decent.  The meatballs were tasty and the complimenting tomato sauce was superb.

Spinach gnocchi with gorgonzola sauce- apparently this dish is highly recommended by a lot of people as well as my coworker, so I decided to go for it.  Having never tried gnocchi before, I wasn't really sure what to expect.  For some reason I thought there would be something other than just straight gnocchi and sauce.  The texture of the gnocchi was great and the dish tasted good for the first 4 bites, but I was not a fan.  It's very filling!  The sauce is great, but I wish there was more flavor in the whole dish itself.

I will probably be back for more calamari and to try the seafood spaghetti which caught my eye from the table next to us.

I would definitely recommend this adorable, affordable Italian restaurant.  The ambience is romantic, but down to earth.  The service was good, and the prices were better - and the food was some of the best Italian I've had in Manhattan.  

For the appetizer, I has the Piadina Mozzarella Pomodoro.  It was definitely solid, but nothing too special.

The homemade spinach gnocchi in Gorgonzola sauce was incredible (as many reviewers here said).  I expected it to be really strong because of the Gorgonzola (not my favorite cheese), but the sauce wasn't overpowering - just creamy, subtle and delicious.  This was important, because the gnocchi was melt-in-your-mouth and meant to be savored.  Really, it's a top notch dish.

The tiramisu at the end of the meal was fine - it was standard tiramisu.  No complaints, except that I wish it came with a side of more spinach gnocchi.

This place is fantastic by Manhattan standards, though Trattoria Zero Otto Nove at Arthur Avenue definitely beats it.  But then again, Arthur Avenue is la creme de la creme (or sauce de la sauce?) of Italian dining.  I liked it probably just about as much or more than Becco in Hell's Kitchen (hard to compare, because I didn't have gnocchi).

Very cute little place.  No bar so don't get there early like I did.  Thankfully they were kind enough to give me a table before the rest of my party arrived.  We shared the caprese salad which was very generous.  For my main I had the spinach gnocchi which was homemade and amazing.  A shared tiramisu to finish a lovely evening.

Terrific, elegant northern italian restaurant.

This is a very old-school italian place.  There's nothing trendy about it, and that's just fine with us.  The service level is very high.  The Captain and waitstaff are more than willing to accommodate whatever it is you need and provide advice on what's good right now.  

The food itself was very good.  Again, old school.  The sauces are rich and the portions pretty large.  Don't miss the desserts!

We really enjoyed it and will try to return.

I love Griffone restaurant staff is always on top food very good fresh pasta all the time different once my favored Appel ravioli  and green & white pasta with prosciutto and paise
Good for and for dinner never been disappointed

Went for a small networking lunch.  Italian food.  Nothing great, nothing bad.  Ordered the antipasto for appetizer.  The mozzarella was good, rest was average.  For lunch meal ordered the squash ravioli.  It was average.  The ravioli seemed to be inconsistently cooked bc parts of it were dry at the outer edges.  The filling of some were dry, while others were moist.  Nice service though.

Awesome Italian with a quaint neighborhood feel. The staff was accommodating including seating us at a table by the front window that I had requested after getting a quick look around.  Drinks were excellent and served promptly. Started with an order of mussels to split between my wife and I as an appetizer. They came in two gigantic bowls the size of the entire top of the table. While they were very tasty, the presentation and portion was way too much. We questioned whether they had served  two full orders, but were told that this was one order. On a very positive note, an order of the veal parmigiana was sensational -- possibly the best ever. The portion of veal was ample, pounded thin and served with just the right amount of red sauce and cheese. The side of spaghetti was a perfect compliment. This was a really great dish. Overall, Restaurante Grifone was a really good experience and we will definitely go back.

The most important aspect of a restaurant is the food and the food here is beyond excellent. Reminded me of eating at my great aunt's growing up. Definitely old school italian. However, the decor is also a reminder of eating at my great aunt's. Definitely old school.

They could use a serious revamping of the interior. I'm not saying it has to be modern, it can be classic without looking old and worn out like it does. The prices are not cheap and the food is worth it but take some of that cash and buy some new seating, get rid of the rug put down a nice wood floor.

I loved the wait staff too...again old school, but excellent service.

Pricey restaurant.  Went during lunch and the restaurant was a quarter full at best.  Got a pasta special (veal ragu) for $20.  Very al dente and portions were generous, but still a bit over-priced.

great service, great pasta. very old school -- everyone knows everyone, which makes it a very comfortable and relaxed environment. Owner was super friendly, waiters were accommodating and knew EVERYTHING, and the wine was good.  Only downsides are that everyone eating there is old, it's empty by 9pm, and it's a little expensive -- the plain pasta w/ tomato sauce was delicious, but $25??  I would also highly recommend the Paglia e Fiore, which is spinach and egg noodles.  Surprisingly not that heavy.
Would definitely go back, but too expensive for a regular spot.

Grifone is a local neighborhood Italian restaurant, only half a block from my apartment.  But it is also a first-class Italian restaurant that, like so many of the really good ones, can make me the kind of pasta I want with the kind of sauce I want with the kind of protein I want...and deliver it all piping hot and tasting delicious.  The waiters are knowledgeable, and are always nice to me.  The bar is small but inviting.  Because it's so small it never looks empty.  If it's a special occasion, the waiters will fawn over you even more than normal.  While not cheap, the food, and the experience, at "The Griffon" is always worth the price.  I give Grifone a B+.

Restaurant Grifone is a lovely restaurant with high quality Northern Italian food with old school service and values.  I have been there several with my grandparents who have been going there for 20 years.  The guys who work there are hilarious- all native Italian who are so over the top with attention and service.  Every time I go in there some guy named Mario calls me beautiful.  They take their food very seriously.  All the ingredients are fresh, authentic,  high quality or homemade.  The fish in particular is always really fresh and well prepared.  It's certainly not trendy but the food is always excellent, so if you're looking for an authentic old-school experience try it!

A terrible experience. We were offered a choice of Chardonay or Pinot Grigio by the glass (no wine list) The Pinot Grigio was very poor and we were charged $12 a glass for a wine that probably cost no more than $5 per bottle. The waiter tried to sell us everything on the menu. He also complained about The UN people. Evidently they only tip 15% regardless of the quality of the service. The food was of sub-par quality and tasteless. My wife ordered a veal dish, which was tenderized and dry. My lasagna was all pasta with very little filling. Value wise, this restaurent is a total rip off in my opinion.

Food is excellent. Price is agreeable. And the volume of business they bring in on a Friday or Saturday night speaks for itself. Service can be spotty and I don't like the wooden chairs with the arms, but if you can overlook that you're in for a treat.

Pros: The food is amazing. Great Priced - ordered the $1 meatballs, $1 riceballs, garlic bread, fried calamari, and the rigatoni alla sicily (w/ eggplant) and the bill came out to $75. Was stuffed at the end of the meal! Really authentic italian. The meatballs are a favorite. The rice balls a bit too lemon-y  for me. The fried calamari, garlic bread and pasta dish were amazing. And the 'free' bread they give you is so soft and yummy. The service as far as refilling the water glass and checking on us frequently was very good.

Now to the Cons: Came on a friday night. Told that there was a 20 minute wait which ended up being an 45 minutes to an hour. The host/bartender service isn't the best; took us 20 minutes to order a bottle of wine at the bar; $29 bottle of Cab Franc. The way the seat people is confusing. People who had just walked in the restaurant would get seated right away and we had been sitting there for 45 minutes. They don't take reservations so you have to just got there and wait. And CASH ONLY no credit cards. The wooden chairs suck and are super uncomfortable.

My Suggestion would be to go on a weekday when it's not busy because Friday and Saturday it's packed and not very enjoyable until the food comes that is.

Our food didn't have much flavor, the prices where super high, the wait was almost an hour and a half, our table was ooberly cramped, the atmosphere was fun, the staff was friendly... wont be going back.

The pasta was homemade, you could tell, but it was overly cooked so it felt mushy.

I think they could focus on appetizers and drinks instead of trying to give a full dinner service experience.  I don't think the kitchen, the staff, or the space allows for a full 3 course, or even 2 courses.  They have a hit with their bread and olives... and the wine, but the food doesn't seem to get many props (with the exception of the homemade pasta which I experienced and didn't enjoy).
Prompt service, remarkable food, great desserts. The restaurant itself gets a lot of street noise when the bay doors are open in nice weather. But that goes for most restaurants in NYC.

I had the sliced chicken breast with summer salad. It was tender and well seasoned. The salad was very unique and a good balance to the chicken. For dessert, I had some hazelnut chocolate thing. It was a nice not-too-sweet end to a great meal. I also had the calamari and octopus for appetizers, which were flavorful and...well...appetizing.

Their pappardelle with yellow tomatoes and goat cheese was some of the best pasta I have eaten, ever.  Lasagna was also very good.

As other reviewers noted, the service was only OK, specifically we needed to wait a  while for our order to be taken.  Still, I felt all the staff had a genuine desire to help and were  friendly.

The atmosphere was low-key, comfortable, not loud.  Good place for a date, a casual dinner with a friend, or a big group dinner (there was even a couple of children, who remained extremely well-behaved and quiet).

Cash only, and reservations can only be made for 6+ people.

To be fair, I can understand where the negative customer-service reviews are coming from. The scene upon entering can be daunting for a first-time diner, as there's almost always a line and no host(ess) to speak of. There is, instead a list held by one of the waiters, but if you get on it, you'll find that the wait time is generally no longer than half an hour. If you're not dying if hunger, waiting it out at a local bar is well worth it.

When seated, you'll find the waitstaff straight-forward, friendly, and helpful, albeit, VERY busy. I've never been to this restaurant and NOT seen it full (even immediately following Hurricane Sandy), and it's important to note that there's a reason for that. This place is very much a local favorite, and there are frequent regulars that get their due attention. After our third visit, one of the waiters who commonly most holds the coveted list recognized my boyfriend as well, and it's nice to know that that many visits warrants a lasting (positive!) impression as well.

As for the post important part, the food: excellent all around. I firmly believe the negative reviews about the food show an overall lack of knowledge about authentic Italian cuisine on the part of the reviewers. If you came looking for a fried chicken cutlet covered in cheese, you definitely chose the wrong place. I've had the risotto, the pasta, and the steak (in addition to a number of appetizers, including the sardines) and I've been very happy with everything I've tried. The wine selection in consistent and the house wines are completely acceptable (though, as with most places, the better vintage is sold only by the bottle).

To date, my favorite dish is any of the seafood specials, as they handle shellfish preparation excellently here (no drowned oysters and the like). All dishes are prepared to bring out the best of the main ingredients and not over-power them; you can taste your steak, appreciate the home-made texture of your pasta, and little touches like adding chili peppers to the olive oil make the experience unique and memorable. Dessert is similarly delicious. I for one will be very sad to see the pumpkin panna cotta (which I suspect to be a seasonal offering) go.

In short, be patient, bring cash, and you will not be disappointed.

This place has HORRIBLE SERVICE and is overrated. We waited in line for 25 mins, sat down and the waitress comes over and was like "oh let me get you your menu." 15 minutes later she totally forgot about us, did not bring us the drinks we ordered even though we tried to wave her over a few times. We ended up asking another waiter for a menu while our waitress chats with other people in the restaurant. Throughout the whole meal, she did not pour us any water or ask us how things tasted - she however, was extremely attentive to the guests who were sitting right next to us. Thanks so much for making us feel like we didn't even exist in the room.

About the food:

Seafood Fettuccine with shrimp, clam, and mussels was OK. Yes, the pasta was fresh and chewy, but that's about it. The seafood was over cooked. Shrimps were dried, and clams were so cooked that they shrunk smaller than a dime size. The mussels were not fresh at all and had a weird smell when you chew on it.

Lasagna was not good at all. It was too soft and the ground beef in it tasted like bad meat loaf left over from a week ago.

Thank you for a fantastic experience....NOT.

Cash only. Cute and good homemade pasta. Specify how you want it cooked. I judge Italian places by their gnocchi and their's wasn't amazing but certainly passable. Reasonable prices (vs. Midtown Manhattan). I drove but quite accessible. Drinks are solid (house wine is not terrible). I really enjoyed the appetizers (caprese was fresh, short ribs quite food). Desserts are excellent, but quite rich. I drove but reasonable transit. Can get cramped so come on a weekday or early.

After 30 minutes wait on a Friday night for party of two, we were so excited for the dinner since I read so many positive reviews.
Their wine by glass doesn't allow much selection, but starts from $4 which is unbelievably cheap.
The bread and spicy olive oil were delicious. I would say that was the best part of the dinner.
The appetizer, tuna calpacho was wrong. Tuna was too thin. Didn't really go with the olive oil.
My main, pork chop was lack of flavor.
My sister's main, the day of risotto - lobster - had too many corns which destroied the flavor, and also tasted cheap.
Service was not quick, but nice and friendly. The portion was large.
Overall, I enjoyed the dinner, but not positive if going back.

AMAZEBALLS!!

Noodle Pudding is everything you'd want in a homey Italian unpretentious neighborhood restaurant. From the dimly lit dining room to the quaint decorations in the bathroom, everything is set to make you feel like you stepped into a warm and inviting environment.

Peruse the main menu, which is fairly small, to the daily specials, which is large and diverse and really get a feel of what you want before ordering.

Last night, some friends and I shared the Mushroom Tortellini (a daily special), which was some of the best pasta I ever had with a very light and perfectly salted mushroom sauce with chopped, firm mushrooms. I had the Fettuccine with Seafood Ragu, which had ample seafood with giant Mussels. My friends had Rigatoni with Eggplant and Ricotta and the Fluke with white beans (a daily special, I think). The bread with sun-dried tomato and olive oil dipping sauce that came at the start of the meal was divine. I was trying my best not to scarf all of it down, taking more than my friends and filling me up before the real meal. The Pear and Ricotta cheesecake that our waiter suggested was divine. And House wine for $4 a glass, yes please!

Now I'll admit our server was a bit stiff, but we got just enough attention from him and the manager. And you know those rare busboys that keep a restaurant really on-par service-wise? The ones that pick up your scarf when it falls on the floor, keep your water glass full, make sure you have bread and dip, take your plate or wine glass away at exactly the right moment, with you barely noticing. Yea, THAT guy. He was really at the top of his game on the night of my fantastic Noodle Pudding dinner. Amazing.

Note: CASH ONLY!

Food: The complimentary bread is delicious and the dipping olive oil is superb. Their Gnocchi with butter and sage is one of the best I've ever tried, and their Rigatoni Alla Siciliana is really great too. It's not the type of cheesey, oily Italian, they have very traditional dishes. My carnivorous friends enjoyed their dishes as well.

Service: Attentive, friendly, and some actually speak Italian!

Cost: Fairly inexpensive.   CASH ONLY

Parking:  Pretty bad.

Neighborhood:  I love Brooklyn Heights.  Walking around the neighborhood on a nice day is an added bonus since you're right by the water.

Ill have to break this down here (much like everyone else)

Food:  The food at Noodle pudding is very good!  The olive oil and bread are phenomenal.  I am convinced that the secret ingredient in that oil mixture has to be some sort of drug....because nothing legal can be that addicting.

I have the pappardelle and mushrooms.  it was slightly above average.  The pasta was slightly undercooked.  Not al dente, but one step below that.  

My brother had Straccetti.  HOLY F%$KIN& G@D that was good.  The beef was tender and flavorful, the mushrooms were warm and tender, and it all came together with the arugula salad that filled me right up.

We also had the lasagna which was rich and delicious.

Service:  What service?  you mean the hobo who came to our table to give us an attitude, not bring us bread without asking twice, never refill our water or cocktails.  Oh that guy was there...I didn't know he worked there, I just though he felt bad for us since we looked hungry, so he had someone else bring out our food then flung a check that was scribbled in crayon.  If it would have taken less then an act of congress to get him to the table, I might have asked him to explain each line item.  

Overall the food is great, so it is worth another shot.....

Il Mattone is a great lunch place in TriBeca. It has a rustic appeal to it and when the weather is nice out, they put tables outside and open up the entire storefront so you can get the natural breeze from the water.

Service here is always quite excellent - the hosts are friendly, waiters always stop over to check in on you.  

Their brick-oven pizzas are really great and if you come with another person at lunchtime, I would suggest sharing an appetizer and one pizza. I found the portions here very large and significantly better than Dean's.

For one thing - I never leave Il Mattone super thirsty because of MSG!

This is one of those consistently good Italian Spots in NYC that I have been to over 25 times.  The variety of pasta dishes, sandwiches, and specials always keep things entertaining and it always hits the spot.  I have never been disappointed by the food or pleasant staff over the past two years that I have been frequenting this restaurant, usually for lunch or a casual dinner for two.

Standouts on the menu are the Crab Fettucini - homemade pasta with a generous serving of crabmeat, Meat Lasagna: made the may your Italian Grandmother would, and surprisingly The Il Mattone Burger is one of the better burgers I've had in the city -  served with a portabella mushroom, onions, fresh mozzarella on a lovely roll.  This burger needs no ketchup!

I'd give it five stars if they could figure out a way to make the space more comfortable and less noisy.

Il Mattone is a decent Seamless Web option, provided you realize that they are principally a pizzeria and not an all around Italian restaurant.  We opted for a large brick oven Il Mattone pizza pie ($24) and an appetizer order of fried calamari ($9).  The calamari was fairly good.  I really liked the breading, and it appears that they use fresh squid instead of frozen.  The marinara dipping sauce was good as well, not too acidic and not too sweet.  The only drawback was that for a delivery order, they did not allow any way for the steam to vent, so the breading started to get a little soggy by the time the order arrived.  However, it wasn't too difficult to figure out how good the calamari would have been at the restaurant, and I was pleased.  

The pizza was decent.  Their signature pie includes pepperoni, sausage, red bell peppers, and mushrooms.  The thin crust is pretty nice with lovely charcoal deposits underneath.  The collection of toppings was messy though and uneven in their distribution leading to a slightly altered taste when moving from slice to slice.  Also, this particular choice of toppings led to more oil and salt being present than might occur in a strictly vegetarian selection like the Quattro Stagione.  With that said, I generally did like my pizza.  It's not among the best pies in the city, but for Fi-Di, it is fairly good.  The delivery time for a week night was about 45 minutes.


This is my favorite Italian restaurant in TriBeCa.  Start with the wild mushroom appetizer and the rest will fall into place.  The pizzas are great, as is the rest of the menu, and there's a good wine selection, too.  Additionally, they deliver -- and they are my go-to when ordering a pie, whether that be for lunch or dinner.

When you talk about old school Italian restaurants, you can not say another sentence without saying the name of this place. I have never been here and never knew that such a little old school gem can be found in the middle of no where. The first thing that pops into most people's heads when they think of Italian and New York is Little Italy in NYC, but this restaurant is not amongst the glitz and glam of NYC, it's in Queens. Yes you read this right, Queens.

So have been hearing about this place from my girlfriend for such a long time and hearing about all the amazing food that comes out of its kitchen, I've been dying to go and try some of the food. Luckily for us one of her friends gave us a gift card to go there. So we had to take the opportunity when given right??!!

So as we are pulling up to the restaurant, my girlfriend reminds me of two things. One, the decor might be out dated but that adds to the charm and quality of the place. It's decor is straight from the 1970s and I was told they haven't changed it since, yes they cleaned and dusted but the old school golden chandeliers, wood paneled walls, and carpet on the floor added to that charm. The second thing she reminded me is, do not ask to see a menu. WHAT NO MENU????!!!!!!!! How the hell am I supposed to know what to order and what they have. To reassure me and calm me down, my girlfriend told me that when the waiter comes over just tell him you don't want to see a menu and what you are in the mood to have, whether it be pork, beef, chicken, lamb, veal, or seafood. You just ask him what can they make for you and the waiter will tell you. They even say they can make it any way you like. A place that goes off menu?? Well honestly they have more things they can make off the menu than they can on the menu. Trust me guys ask what the can make you will be greatly surprised.

So to start off we ordered a nice bottle of wine. Normally I order the wine, being that I am the wine nerd in the relationship, but this time my girlfriend ordered, a nice Chianti which was delicious. It had dark rich color,a hint of tobacco and earth on the nose, with the ever so lightest hints of pepper. On the palate it had dark fruit such as cassis, blackberry, and currant with some earth notes. I thought the tannins were going to be more aggressive but to my surprise they were subtle and round. The age of the wine allowed the tannins to round themselves and not be so bitter on the finish. Usually with Chiantis I need food because they seem to be too dry, but I was pleasantly surprised to find out that I could drink this one even without food.

Now onto the food. As we brain stormed what we wanted to eat we decided to have some fresh grilled whole calamari and some grilled octopus. Yes you heard me right, whole calamari. Most of us are used to the frozen crap that most places just defrost and fry. Here you get two beautiful whole calamari beautiful seasoned and grilled to perfection. It was tender and slightly chewy, but had the most delicate and succulent flavor. The grilled octopus was no slouch either. The tentacles were cut up into bite sized chunks and the lemon butter sauce served with it just added to the delicious texture and flavor. Both appetizers were delicious and the sad part about it was when I finished I wanted to cry because I wanted more....

Now for our main course. My girlfriend ordered some freshly grilled scallops along side some black squid ink pasta with lobster meat. Ok, just reading what I just wrote makes me hungry. You have pasta, good....you have squid ink pasta, good.....you have lobster, GOOD.... And you have scallops, GOOD.... What does all the equal.....GOOD!!!! Did I mention her dish was good. The scallops were grilled perfectly and melted in your mouth, you don't even have to chew. The pasta and lobster paired so well together and added another level of complexity to the dish as a whole. On the other hand, I had the lamb osso bucco with a side order of gnocchi. I thought I was going to get a lamb chop or some small cut, but I got a huge lamb shank that was covered in sauce. The meat was so tender and juicy that you do not even need a knife to cut into it. The meat came right off the bone. The gnocchi was so delicious and soft, they melt right in your mouth. They are as soft as pillows and taste just like sunshine and rainbows.... Lol

You would think that after all this I would be too full for dessert, but no. I was given a dessert menu, I know a menu, I was shocked. But to my amazement they had creme brûlée... Which was not on the menu. Like I said earlier, they have things that are not on the menu, so the best thing to do is ask and find out.my girlfriend had the chocolate Vesuvius cake.  To top of the night and our time there we had a glass of port, which was the perfect ending to a perfect night.

An Italian restaurant with some old school charm.  A few percentage points short of a 5, but I rounded up.  PV serves up some great well made food.  Pastas are homemade and can be ordered as an appetizer or an entree.

We started off with some Grilled Polipo, which was fabulous.  Wonderfully tender octopus that was seasoned and grilled to perfection.  I could have eaten another plate of it.  The Fusi alla Grappa with mushrooms was simple, but delicious.

A special of the night was lasagna, which was meaty and cheesy and a perfect example of what lasagna should be.  Pretty awesome.  The osso bucco was served with light creamy gnocchi.  The dish was excellent.

As if that wasn't enough, dessert sounded too good to pass up.  The Nutella crepes were good, as were the pistachio cannoli where the shells were almond tuile cookies..yum!

While I have never been a fan of grappa, we were offered an after dinner drink and homemade grappa was mentioned, so I figured why not.  I couldn't believe how good it was and it was a perfect end to a fantastic meal.

Old style Italian and I mean that as a positive.  They have valet which if you are driving is a big bonus.  Restaurant décor is dated and seating could definitely be upgraded, that is about the only minuses.  The crowd on Friday night was a mixture of families, groups of friends and dates - all there for one thing GREAT food.

Wine list is extensive and offers a wide range of varietals and prices.  Service is spot on and definitely not hard sell or in your face.

Food was excellent - oysters and squid; branzino; manicotti; pork loin - all can be recommended.  Can't wait to return

Awesome traditional Italian fare at this Queens restaurant - great place for a large or small group. Appetizers platters were large and delicious. Our party tried typical plates like Chicken Parm, but fish and shellfish dishes were excellent also. Service was old-school and helpful.

The food is amazing. If you're looking for a great Italian restaurant this is the place to go to.  I was there for an office dinner and we had at least 7 different appetizers and no one was disappointed; octopus, calamari, bruschetta, mozzarella sticks , broccoli rabe,etc. You must try the pumpkin ravioli. I can go on and on, excellent sea food and meat.The filet mignon was delicious, if you like lamb chops this place is known for it. The service was great and the waiter was wonderful. If your in Astoria you have to try it! Enjoy

Old school italian food done right. Slightly less fancy and expensive than trattoria l'incontro. Decor is hilarious, in the way that authentic Italian restaurants are.  Portraits of wine-lugging women and the Sicilian countryside grace the walls.

The dishes are pretty expensive but worth the price. I got the veal with proscuitto and mozzarella and my mother had the tagliatelle with ragu.  To top it off, they bring out a complimentary bruschetta and olives to start which is delicious.

Don't be alarmed by the outside-- it may appear to be a funeral parlor, but a delicious meal actually awaits you.

Excellent restaurant. Service is excellent, old school italian dishes. Pasta dishes are fresh, oysters are highly recommended. It is pricey but you get what you paid for.

Great Northern Italian cuisine.  It's not your typical lasagna and spaghetti and meatballs restaurant.   Lots of seafood -- very fresh.  Try the grilled octopus.  Great ravioli and sauce that tasted identical to the sauce my nonna used to make.  The service is great, and the waiters there have the entire menu memorized!  Our family tends to go there after funerals, and somehow stuffing my face full of delicious food tends to really help the bereavement process.

The only downside is that the desserts were not great.  Truck on over to Ditmars and go to Martha's for dessert. :-)

This is an old-school Italian restaurant.  Ladies, go with a date if you dont want a "way too deep into the Soprano's" fan trying to pick you up, and even then they may do it anyway.  Theres no shortage of confidence in the men who eat and DRINK here.  Bring your bitch schtick with you.

The menu is classic Italian.  And, Ive never been disappointed with anything, but, I cant say its as good as it gets.  There are a lot of REALLY good Italian eateries in NYC.

The one thing that makes me beg Hubby to bring me here is the Artichoke.  Its stuffed and baked to perfection.  That DOES get 5 stars, and it IS the best ever.  However, they dont serve it for lunch.

Corona's finest, with the exception of The Beatnuts. Easily one of the best Italian restaurants in all of Queens. Every time I'm in New York I make an effort to come here. The place rich with history, full of mob bosses, local celebrities all while providing you fantastic service and really phenomenal food.

I've yet to experience a bad meal at this place. First they come to the table with a huge bread basket filled with a variety of cheese and meats. You can't go wrong with their fried calamari or fried mozzarella apps. Get a glass of wine and class it up a bit because when your entree arrives it's going to demand a lot out of you.

The seafood dishes are great, like really great. The jumbo stuffed shrimp or crab cakes are enough for two people. Their sauce is really tasty too and we all know how important it is to have good sauce. For an evening you'll feel like Sinatra and if you sit upstairs in the dining area you'll really feel like ol' blue eyes.

I love this place and the Steve Van Gundy look-alike host who runs it.

My number 1 favorite Italian restaurant. Service is phenomenal, food is phenomenal, atmosphere is gorgeous.

I've been going here for nearly 30 years and have never had a bad meal. Anything you order from pasta, to seafood, to chicken, to veal, to steaks is great.  They will accommodate special requests. Put any sauce on any pasta, no pasta if you want vegetables no problem.

Our last visit here was in November for my birthday with a group of 15. They made us a hot antipasto for the table that included mussels, baked clams, fried calamari, fried zucchini, stuffed mushrooms. For the kids a delicious mozzarella en carozza. Then we each ordered individually off the menu. The food came out at the same time and was perfectly prepared. The kids got half orders of pasta as their main courses. For dessert my hubby ordered two small cakes - a tiramisu cake and cassata cake both were to die for. Our glasses were never empty the service was attentive and we were seated in our own little alcove off the main dining room so we felt like we had our own little private party.

And the menu prices are very reasonable for the experience and food quality.

The only negative is that you have to go downstairs to use the restroom. If you have a problem navigating stairs it's a bit scary (not that I have this issue but I have seen some elderly people struggle with this as well as tipsy girls in high heels

I had a wonderful and deligh experience here. My boyfriend brang me here for my birthday. This restaurant is a authentic italian place. The food was superb! Our table was located towards the back but in a very romantic setting. The bread they start you off with was really tastey.  My entree was amazing and I ate to the point where I couldn't even breathe anymore lol. Towards the end...we had a cheesecake(to die for) and they sang happy birthday to me...

I also suggest to try their house wine...its pretty strong and amazing!!

Good quality Italian food is so good, yet so hard to find.  We ordered the bolognese which was great, the pasta was cooked perfect, had a great salad but it's difficult to mess up a salad (although I have seen it done), and lastly we had the veal piccata which was amazing, excellent quality veal.  At the end of the meal the put a bottle of sambuca on the table with our espresso, I haven't seen that done in years.  I'm certain I'll be back here shortly.

Bottom line: The service was quick and friendly. The appetizer was fresh and delicious with lots of variety. Main course took a bit but worth the wait.

The decor is vintage/classic Italian.  It was a bit dated for my taste but it was nice. On a Wednesday night, we didn't have any problems getting a table. We were served a variety of bread and given the specials for the night. Most of it sounded awesome. I had the short ribs, Crab Cake, and Shrimp in garlic sauce. All 2 were excellent.

In my top 5 Italian restaurants. Tough to get a table so make sure you make a reservation. Everything is great. It's not super duper fancy, but very nice. Presentation is top notch. Bread basket is ridiculous. My favorite is the meat bread, but be careful you don't spoil your appetite with their delicious breads. Apps are all excellent. My favorite entree is the shrimp parm. If you have room for dessert try the Italian cheesecake.

Oh yea and you MUST order their homemade red wine. Insane. Sooooooo good. Biscotti on the house is some of the best I've ever had. Place is filled with celebrity pictures and plaques. This place is legit. Only minor complaints is that they are slightly overpriced and the valet situation is a headache. Guys... bring a girl here for a special occasion. You will be sure to impress her.
Discover the very best Italian restaurants in London with Square Meal’s handpicked guide to the top Italian restaurants in London. Italian cuisine is one of the most popular cuisine types in the world and can either be brilliantly rustic, beautifully refined or simply elegant. With a wealth of fantastic ingredients, it is only natural that Italian food is so flavourful and full of colour and each region of Italy brings something special to the table. From simple pizza and pasta to more complex Italian dishes, there is something for everyone to enjoy with Italian food.

London has an abundance of great Italian restaurants to offer, from simple pizza restaurants to elegant Italian fine dining restaurants and it is often hard to choose. To help, Square Meal has compiled this handy guide to the best Italian restaurants in London, aiming to make your selection an easier one and to ensure that you are guaranteed one of the best Italian dining experiences in London.

Every one of the Italian restaurants featured in Square Meal’s list of London’s top Italian restaurants have been tried and tested by food critics and our own customers so check out the reviews and book a table online with Square Meal today. As well as the restaurants on this page, we have listings for Italian restaurants in the West Endincluding Covent Garden and Mayfair, Italian restaurants in Central London and Italian restaurants in The City as well as Italian restaurants throughout the rest of London . Each Square Meal listing features an independent review, as well as reviews from diners, together with unique special offers such as free drinks and discounts.

Bocca di Lupo has enjoyed abundant column inches since launching in 2008, and chef/co-proprietor Jacob Kenedy's gutsy Italian small plates continue to draw rave reviews. Devotees rate the ‘wonderful ingredients', and the kitchen shows its regional allegiances with a Piedmontese salad of rabbit with tuna sauce, broad beans and capers, skewers of lamb's sweetbreads and artichokes (from Lazio), ‘stunning' Ligurian trofie pasta with cuttlefish, and immense Tuscan tagliata (grilled bone-in sirloin for sharing). Provenance and authenticity are the keys, and Kenedy's passion for Italy also extends to the restaurant's swanky decor and effervescent vibe – although some readers have been underwhelmed by the ‘cramped' space and sharp table-turning. Given the choice, hole up at the marble-topped chef's counter for a post-theatre supper, a glass of Italian regional wine or a hazelnut and cream-laced nightcap.

‘If you fancy some informal glamour and can't make it to Milan, then Cecconi's hits the spot', enthuses a fan of this slick, smooth and effortlessly classy venue – no wonder it's a favoured haunt of garrulous high rollers who are ‘comfortable with their money'. There are always ample opportunities for people-watching, whether you are up at the glitzy bar or in the suave dining room with its marble floors, mirrors, squidgy green leather banquettes and wraparound windows. The diverse all-day menu continues to deliver cracking cichetti snacks (meatballs, stuffed baby squid, delicate quails' eggs with tuna and caper sauce), top-drawer pasta (finely balanced crab ravioli) and ‘adorable' mains ranging from lamb cutlets with sautéed artichokes to roast halibut with salsa verde. To finish, the vanilla cheesecake is ‘out of this world', and the drinks list is peppered with appetising Italian names. Cecconi's is also a top shout for terrific Britalian breakfasts – ‘grazie!'

To judge by the amount of glowing feedback, it seems that L'Anima's main man Francesco Mazzei can do no wrong. The compliments come thick and fast (‘incredible food', ‘perfect service') and it's clear this is a restaurant at the top of its game, with a strikingly beautiful, high-gloss look to match – the glass facade allowing natural light to show off the dining room's white marble and luxe leather seating. The five-course tasting menu (£60) is an ideal way to sample Mazzei's bold but precise Calabrian cuisine: highlights include a stunning starter of scallop and courgette flower stuffed with air-dried cod and anchovy sauce, a perfectly judged stracciatella soup, ricotta tortelli with brown butter and Norcia black truffle, and wow-inducing rabbit siciliana – a dish of consummate technique and deep flavours. Some may quibble about the ‘corporate' vibe, but this place is the ‘gastronomic equivalent of Bugatti' and arguably the benchmark for Italian dining in London – especially with back-up from a ‘fantastic' City-friendly list of heavyweight Italian and French wines.

Still one of the toughest tickets in town to get a table at, Locanda Locatelli combines a lasting ‘wow' factor with ‘warm, unpretentious' service. Appended to a hotel, the subdued leather-and-wood dining room has a low-level glow of contentment and a Damien Hirst on the wall; even during a businessy lunch service, it feels like an occasion. And why wouldn't diners appreciate Locatelli's approach to his beloved Italian food – beautiful, seasonal and driven by flavour? Great technique comes as standard, and classics such as ox tongue with salsa verde are rarely off the menu; readers also love the pappardelle with chicken livers and sage, as well as the spring lamb with morels and minted pea purée. To finish, Locatelli's spin on the traditional cassata is as light and sweet as the original, but with a sophisticated style that delights his worldly customers. Italophiles can have a field day with the patrician wine list, though naff-sounding cocktails and a slightly tired bar are a rare misstep.

‘It's loud and it's brash – but it's meant to be', approves one happy customer of this diminutive take on a Venetian bácaro. Closely packed tables and painstakingly distressed interiors (including much-emulated scrubbed-wood panelling, rusting ceiling tiles and exposed light bulbs) create a ‘humming' atmosphere, while the plain paper menu promises ‘incredible value' and ‘truly delicious' small plates – from cichetti nibbles such as piping-hot arancini balls to winsomely topped pizzette, indulgent risotto nero with gremolata and melt-in-the-mouth meatballs of various descriptions. Service is aloof but swiftly obliging, although it sometimes gets the balance wrong, and the policy of serving wine in tumblers is a persistent bugbear. Long queues are mitigated by the equally cool basement Campari Bar. With expansion into Smithfield and Covent Garden, Polpo has become an undeniably successful enterprise.

Few Michelin-starred restaurants can effortlessly create intimacy in such a cavernous space, or accommodate young children with the same aplomb as famous faces – but that's why this world-famous Italian by the river is so successful. It can sometimes feel like a ‘very expensive canteen' (‘they know how to charge here'), but consistently packed houses tell their own story. The River Café's mantra is fastidious seasonal sourcing and ‘rustically styled' food, underpinned by forthright cooking. ‘Spot-on' handmade pasta is always a hit (perhaps spaghetti with Cornish crab, monk's beard and fennel seeds, or tagliarini with nettles and pecorino), and wood-roasted specialities also deliver ‘fresh, fabulous flavours' (Anjou pigeon with char-grilled polenta, broad beans and garden leaves, say). To finish, try pannacotta with grappa and raspberries rather than the much-vaunted chocolate nemesis. ‘Attentive, polite and knowledgeable' staff add to the cosmopolitan buzz, and the all-Italian wine list is one of London's best – a treasure trove of glorious regional gems.

Since pitching camp here in 2006, River Café alumnus Theo Randall has enlivened the corporate expanses of the InterContinental with his brand of vivacious Italian regional cooking. Given his background, it's no surprise that he understands seasonality, sourcing and the wonders of the wood-fired oven; the result is bold food that resonates with rusticity – even if prices are more Mayfair than Modena. Dishes arrive heroically unadorned, from pan-fried squid with Lamon borlotti beans, chilli and anchovies or handmade cappelletti stuffed with slow-cooked veal and mousseron mushrooms, to triumphant plates of wood-roasted Anjou pigeon on pagnotta bruschetta with pancetta and peas. Salads are fresh as a daisy and desserts include the signature Amalfi lemon tart. Visitors appreciate the layout of the dining room with its glass partitions and luxuriant floral displays, although service can sometimes ‘let things down'. Attractive set menus (£27/33 for two/three courses) offer a relatively painless way in.

Fashion-conscious Tinello brings some hip modernism to conservative Westminster with its bare brick walls, stripped floors and dangling lampshades. The owners are protégés of Giorgio Locatelli, and it shows in an upbeat, zippy assortment of ‘small eats' – anything from ‘unmissable' fried courgettes to Tuscan-style chicken-liver crostini or polenta with ceps. You could make a meal from these, or take the conventional route by adding some pasta – perhaps pappardelle with slow-cooked hare ragù or paccheri with burrata and ‘nduja sausage. Big, bullish flavours also typify plates of, say, brill fillet with borlotti beans, white onions and clams, while desserts such as pannacotta with toffee and peaches are mouth-watering. ‘Prompt, clean, courteous service' suits everyone, and the wine list is a ‘serious march through Italy', with a good selection by the glass. As for the business lunch, ‘it doesn't get much better than this', says a regular – particularly if you bag the front window table.

What happens to graduates of The River Café and Jamie Oliver's Fifteen? Well, some of them end up running their own show – in this case an unassuming little venue dealing in plates of ‘glorious, different and lovingly prepared Italian food'. Despite the occasional hiccup, the kitchen is capable of delivering some exemplary dishes – notably grilled sweetbreads with duck hearts, tagliarini with courgettes and brown shrimps (a dish you could chomp all summer long), roast poussin with Castelluccio lentils and girolles, and some of the most ‘deliciously dressed' salads in the business. Staff are keen, patient and knowledgeable, the mood is buoyant, and plenty of Italian wines are available by the carafe (sample sips are freely offered) – no wonder readers call it a ‘revelation'. Turnover is fast and bills can escalate, but Trullo is a ‘consistently excellent' asset on noisy Highbury Corner.

‘Modern Italian food the way it should be', declaims a fan of Zucca – a sparsely decorated ‘local' restaurant that manages to draw crowds from across the capital with its menu of pitch-perfect dishes cooked with skill and a respect for ingredients. Consider a starter of ox tongue gently braised in stock until meltingly tender, then grilled over charcoal and served with a piquant salsa verde. Silky-soft handmade pasta might be pepped up with spring herbs, peas and ricotta or enriched with a venison ragù, while fish and meat are often grilled (the signature veal chop, for example) or given the slow-cook treatment – as in a spicy octopus stew with pancetta and white polenta. Staff are ‘cool, beautiful and passionate', while prices are admirably low for the quality on offer – a policy that extends to the splendid all-Italian wine list.

I asked for a meal that wasnt on the menu, and cheff didnt have a problem of making it upon my request.All the food was very nice, with staff and the whole restaurant athmosphere being superb aswell. Ive been around alot of diffirent towns in world and their restaurants, and this one really impressed me, will defenatlly be back.

Nice place for a Diner. The food is good, the service is good, the atmosphere is acceptable. If you order a glass of red wine...the wine is not really good and might be changed. As a summary : a good value for money

A large group of 47 females had booked tables here for my cousins birthday celebration some months before, was disappointed with the set menu for £20 as it was basically a choice of £4 starters and a pasta or pizza that was £8 , so they were short changing you of £8 each before you even started. Some tables got there starters and we had not even had our orders taken yet,also they ran out of Vodka twice and sent some staff to the nearest shop. Service was terrible food cold, then we had an large ice cream cake for a surprise at the end of the meal....They had forgotten to put it in the freezer, so it had melted.....very unprofessional , poorly managed would definitely not return......

Booked a set menu for 46 people for my cousins 40th birthday payed a deposit for everyone and whilst doing this discussed having wine on the tables for our guests as we were going to be spending so much money in the restreraunt and bar but when we arrived they tried to tell me that I hadn't organised this even though one of the waiters was there when I was on the phone to the owner when we organised it and said he had heard that he had agreed to it
Then there was the food my soup was so cold when it came that I Couldn't eat it and my cousin ordered the cheesy garlic bread and the bottom if it was so burned she couldn't get her knife through it
When the mains arrived some people's pizzas were basically raw and others were nice and crisp 
At my table 6 people had ordered the same pasta which was in a tomato sauce and had pepperoni in it but it was greasy pasta and I had a huge portion whilst the person next to me had hardly any on her plate I also had a ton of pepperoni and she had none at all in hers 
I had heartburn as soon as I started eating it
Then they ran out of vodka after the first round of drinks and took about half an hour for a waiter to return from Tesco with 1 bottle and they promptly ran out again
The icing on the cake (literally) was the £40 ice cream cake her sister had brought to the restraunt earlier in the day and when we went to get it after the meal someone had put it in the fridge instead of the freezer as instructed and the cake was melted and ruined
They gave us a metal tray of tirimissu with sparklers in it as a replacement 
The staff were rude from the very start except one girl who had just started the day before and frankly looked embarrassed 
They didnt have enough staff on full stop 
Terrible experience and would encourage you to eat else where

great place for a hen/stag night or big party of you, be a nightmare if you want to have a romantic meal for 2!! Great night out and you are encouraged to sit after your meal (booked later on, not so if you go in early), music turned up and tabletop dancing begins...if you want to! Food is fantastic, atmosphere is even better and good value for money. Been twice and will not forget either of those nights!
The food wasn't terrible but you definitely are aware you aren't eating really authentic Italian cuisine. The inside was cliche of tired Italian restaurant themes and the music choice was a steady stream of 80 power ballads.
Not the sort of place I would return to.

We stayed in Aberdeen at the Park Hotel and booked a table for 4 at this Italian place, We went for a 2100 hrs reservation due to our arrival time in the city. Our starters were calamari - very nice, pâté also very good and two bruschetta which were just ok with the bread being rather heavy and dense. The main courses , which arrived immediately after our starters, were a pizza which was ok, carbonara which was exceptionally gloopy and unpleasant, veal that was tough as old boots and cannelloni which was ok. I had to go up to the bar and ask for more cutlery as the staff, having served our mains, immediately moved into party mode having gathered at the back of the restaurant drinking sparkling wine. I have to say that our entire meal was rushed as the staff obviously had somewhere else to go. They play pop music from the 1980's which was good for reminiscing but does not add to the ambiance. All rather odd.

Thanks to Ciro and the staff for the warm and professional welcome and for the quality of proper italian food.

Though the restaurant was empty, we were sat at the worst table between the kitchen window and the rest of the restaurant. Same bland tomato sauce on every dish we ordered, tasted like tinned tomatoes, no flavour whatsoever. None of the full flavours you would expect from italian food. My starter tasted like something that had been recooked. No atmosphere and we were watched by the employees out through the hatch in the kitchen throughout. Also was definitely not worth the cost!!

For those who know Aberdeen in the North East of Scotland the Little Italy restaurant is on Holburn Street about 100 metres from the Union Street / Alford Place Junction.

Over the years this Italian has had its ups and downs. It can be full of oil industry people on a night out or other party goers. But do not be put off by this there are quite tables in what is a good sized restaurant. The food is traditational, cooked to order, well presented and the staff are young and friendly. So if you want someting more than a chain restaurant and do not want to pay over the odds this is a good choice

This is how you will feel while at this gelataria. The owner and staff clearly enjoy their line of business, which is making you and your mouth happy. The whimsical garnishes and flourish to each gelato treat makes this place an outing. Good prices too, starting at €2, so no need to buy more than you can reasonably enjoy.

This is the absolute best gelato to have in Rome and probably the world. The owner himself is who serves you and he has a great personality extremely nice and let's you try all the flavors without even having to ask. Everyone should give this place a try.

Rafaelo, the owner, is going to welcome you with open arms into his gelatteria! 
You´re gonna feel lika a kid in a candy store and want to taste EVERYTHING, I highly recommend the RICOTTA AND PEAR gelato, OH MY LORD was it good!!! The best I ever had! He handmakes every flavor in his shop and you will leave happy! :D <3 Love this place and will DEFINITILY come back next time I´m in Rome!

We stayed in an apartment around the corner in the Jewish Ghetto neighborhood with our 4 kids and visited here every single day. The gelato was lovely. The proprietor does a great job creating beautiful flavor combinations. He's especially gifted with incorporating nut flavors- walnut, pistachio, almond. He has a light touch with sweetness and uses salt brilliantly to illuminate flavor. He is also a gem of a human-being: he takes tremendous pride in his gelato. He patiently indulges the endlessly sampling, indecisive patron (there were times that I watched this happen and I was ready to scream, "OhforGod'ssake! Make up your mind!"). And he charmed the heck out of my five-year-old, designing different creations of gelato and cookies for her every day. She called him the "magic gelato man." Il Dolce Sorriso was a highlight of our trip that will endure in our children's memories.

Shop is small, but the staff is VERY nice to intoduce the selection !
Chocolate fondente is very good, if you are a dark chocolate lover !

good service and great food, got to know the chef very well and always greets you with a smile and hand shake

Great restaurant which our family has visited many times whilst in Sharm El Sheikh. Excellent food, the best of service and great views down the vibrant Naama Bay "strip" at night time. The restaurant is attached to the Jolie Ville Maritime and if you fancy another view get a table on the balcony overlooking the hotel gardens. Italian food at its best. I have eaten there now 15 times.

Sharm is best known for diving, watersports and holidaying in the sun and sometimes good restaurants are not as easy to find here when compared to resorts around Europe. It was therefore a very welcomed and pleasant surprise to come across Zigolini's Italian restaurant in Naama Bay. The restaurant is at the very end of the main walkway in central Naama Bay and positioned above street level inside the Movenpick Jolie Ville Hotel where you can view the Naama promenade from a few meters up. You don't have to walk through the hotel...the entrance is street side. All of the food (3 courses) for four of us was excellent and we had different dishes each. That was the most important thing. Secondly, it's one matter for staff to dress smart and say the right things but the waiters and management of Zigolini's know their trade, are well trained and experienced in the all-important area of customer service and care and certainly attended to all our needs with freindliness and efficiency. The restaurant was neither big or small but you wouldn't feel out of place here as a small group or a large gathering of diners. Full marks here and highly recommended!

Great service and lovely food - had a fabulous pasta. There may be better choices out there, but you certainly won't go wrong with this one and the waiters were great fun. Would definitely return if I was in the mood for Italian.

I am a big fan of rabbit, and one of my favorite ways of preparing it is in a terra cotta casserole in the oven slowly braised in white wine and rosemary. I also love using rabbit in a slow cooked ragu as I did in this recipe, which can be used to top any pasta shape, or even a bowl of soft polenta. We are lucky enough to be able to buy fresh rabbit in many of our grocery stores in Umbria, but here in Florida it is a little more difficult to find rabbit. My husband recently came home with a nice sized frozen rabbit from our butcher and stated he thought we should turn it into a nice ragu sauce for pasta.
I still had some artisan pasta to try from Premiata Fabbrica di Paste Alimentari Giuseppe Afeltra . This company from Gragnano, Italy, has been in business since 1895, and sells a variety of pasta varieties made with the bronze die method. This pasta is a long, thick twisted pasta called fusili, and I decided a hearty rabbit ragu made in my slow cooker would be perfect to top this pasta, though this type of ragu works well paired with almost any pasta type from pappardelle to penne.
I love making ragu sauce for pasta in my slow cooker as I simply prepare the rabbit and vegetables when I get up in the morning, throw it into my slow cooker on low and let it simmer all day long. You could use beef, turkey or pork in place of the rabbit if you prefer, and the sauce will be just as tasty.

Nigella Lawson is the latest chef to showcase an interpretation of Italian food. It's a cuisine heralded for its traditional tastes and style, but has its authenticity been lost along the way?
Move over tiramisu, there's a new Italian dessert in town.
Il crumble.
You'd be forgiven for thinking fruit crumble was a British dish, but in herBBC Two cooking programme Nigellissima Nigella Lawson shares her new ruby-red plum and Amaretti version.
"Along with a lot of not traditionally Italian baking, the good old English crumble has seemed to be gaining in popularity - even modishness in Italy," she writes in her recipe book.
What's happening in Italy, the home of real Italian food? Its food concepts have been exported and adopted around the world, but global foods are also finding their way back into Italy and changing the landscape.
Take Nigella's meatzza recipe - pizza with a meat base. Ever heard of that before?
She writes about the recipe: "It amuses. But then, a culinary pun, it is intended to amuse: it looks like a pizza but its base is made out of meatball mixture... rather like a juicy disc of meatloaf or polpettone."
So just what makes food "authentic"?
Zachary Nowak, food historian and assistant director of the food studies programme at The Umbra Institute in Perugia, Italy says Italian food culture as we know it today actually developed in the post-war economic boom in the country after WWII.
"We would like to imagine we are eating what a peasant in 1800 or 1500 was eating - but they weren't. There is definitely a national Italian food culture now, but I would argue it's not an historical one," he explains.
He thinks that authentic means that "over a certain period of time... say 100 years, it has been a common food, with more or less the same preparation and context for the majority of people in a given area".
Sticking to this definition, Mr Nowak says, there's only one traditional Italian ingredient around today that was around 100 years ago - polenta.
"You can go to Manhattan and have polenta and it costs $20 and is a very chic thing, it's going beyond the Italian food offered in the States maybe 20 years ago.
"But polenta has a completely different meaning to the farmer in the 1890s. It didn't mean a hearty meal, it didn't mean authenticity, it meant monotony and misery and poverty, so as soon as they could get rid of polenta, they did, in the post-war boom."
Polenta remains a hard sell, says chef Theo Randall, who has his own "Italian inspired" restaurant at the Intercontinental, Park Lane, London.
"If you were really authentic and cooking peasant food you'd cook polenta, but people just don't get it in this country. If you put polenta on the menu it's not going to be a big seller."
Mr Nowak says Unesco has recognised the "Mediterranean Diet" on its Lists of Intangible Heritage, but argues the items the diet includes are things people did not eat 100 years ago. Describing that diet "as historical is an enormous invention", he says, "it's the beautiful confluence of people wanting to be authentic and huge marketing and tourism businesses wanting to deliver that".
Olive oil is one such part of the diet.
Mr Nowak says in the 1800s it was really expensive, an industrial lubricant, poor quality, and documents show peasants hardly bought much of it at all - about a tablespoon a day.
He describes it as "the best example of how this tradition has been pushed back retroactively - it's definitely not an 'authentic' Italian food stuff".
But today premium olive oil is widely loved as one of the cuisine's key ingredients.
Theo Randall says the availability of Italy's finest foods has changed Italian cooking the world over.
"One thing that is quite staggering is just how much Italian food people eat in this country, and the quality of authentic ingredients available. I just bought three kinds of squashes from southern Italy, and I could never get them a few years ago.
"I love going and getting ideas from all over Italy and then bringing them back and using what I think is the Italian philosophy of food - which is buying wonderful ingredients and not mucking them about too much, keeping it quite simple and letting the ingredients speak for themselves, and letting the flavour of the vegetable, meat or fish really come out."
The modern perception of Italian ingredients can be traced back to the Italian immigrants that settled in the US in the 19th Century, says Maryann Tebben, an associate professor at Bard College at Simon's Rock, Massachusetts.
She says they purposefully took a set of foods that were familiar to them to the US - such as tomatoes and dried pasta, and classified those foods as "Italian cuisine", despite them being from various regions of Italy.
But why?
"Because they wanted to have a market for their foods, and it was much harder to market them as Calabrian or Sicilian, to the Italians in the immigrant enclaves in New York at the time, but... they didn't want to divide customers.
"But it was also because they wanted to get into industrial marketing, they needed a united front," she explains.
Industrialisation led to the standardisation of pasta, pasta sauces, and other products. Today people associate Italy's pasta and pasta sauces as cornerstones of the cuisine.
Maryann Tebben has been researching Italian sauces for a book she's writing on the history of sauce, as the homogenisation of "pasta sauce" in the US was her inspiration.
"In the US when you say pasta sauce people think only of spaghetti with tomato sauce, but you can't say or do that in Italian.
"There's no one pasta and there's no one sauce. 'Pasta sauce' the term is meaningless in Italian, because authentic Italian sauce is regional.
"And the regionality means you can't define or say for certain what Italian cuisine is, because there is no one idea of it."
Indeed this regionality has been put back at the centre of the fight to retain the roots of Italian cooking.
Carole Counihan, editor-in-chief of food and foodways and professor emerita of anthropology at Millersville University, Pennsylvania, US, says her research shows that there have been dramatic changes in the way that Italians buy their food - with the masses now preferring to shop in supermarkets rather than local stores.
Like many western countries, Italians are consuming more international food and processed food, and cooking habits are changing.
Prof Counihan says it is what has inspired a movement to return to locally sourced food.
"It is somewhat shocking when you look at Italy and you think about the profound importance of... local food, cultural food, terroir - for true Italians, the real prevalence and prominence of their food is a marker of local identity.
"So the transforming food system really I think impinges or conflicts with that traditional identification of local identity with local food," she says.
"A lot of Italians talk about the taste of home, or the taste of our food, so taste is a motivator to return to local foods - local food tastes better, satisfies an atavistic craving for foods that represent home, culture, tradition, community, it's pretty amazing because it encompasses the whole of the culture.
"Everyone's grandma made tomato sauce a little bit differently," she explains.
Such "traditions are traditions because they have evolved", says Zachary Nowak.
Many experts believe food is authentic only when it is evolving, as there is no one moment that makes it more "authentic" than another.
Massimo Bottura, the chef-patron of the three Michelin-starred restaurant Osteria Francescana, Modena, which ranks at number five on the World's 50 Best Restaurants list, the highest placed Italian restaurant, is one.
He says it is "as if Italian food is not allowed to evolve".
"Everyone talks about authenticity but I am not sure that is really what they are aiming for… it almost seems like copying from someone else's test and not thinking things through properly," he says.
"If traditions are put under glass they stagnate. People forget about them and they are lost forever.
"By keeping them actual and contemporary, there is a chance that they will be passed onto future generations which ensures that culinary heritage continues to give people a sense of place and belonging," he explains.
William Drew is the editor of Restaurant magazine, and the chairing judge for the Birra Morretti Emerging Italian Restaurant Awards. He says Italian food is "far from losing its authenticity".
"It's difficult to define but some restaurants are very avant garde, but are grounded in authenticity in a recipe - the ingredients, their seasonality... and what has been put together with traditional dish construction, sometimes is then used to deconstruct."
But for true authenticity, he says you can't beat the right ambience.
"What really makes an Italian restaurant 'authentic' is conviviality. Eating together being a communal, family process, so you want a welcoming maitre d'or chef patron - it's that combination of eating and experience."
But perhaps authentic Italian food in its purest form is easiest to achieve with one simple lesson.
As Theo Randall says: "Italian food is simple and should remain simple."

As a gastronomic destination, Addis Ababa may not seem an obvious choice. The capital of a country that has long been associated with famine and drought, its restaurant scene might be expected to be rudimentary at best.
Far from it. It is a city with a great sense of joie de vivre, reflected not just in a lively artistic and musical scene but also in its culinary heritage, including excellent local food, and some surprising colonial baggage.
The Italians marched into Ethiopia in 1935 and left six years later; a few Italians stayed behind, however, including soldier Francesco Castelli. In 1948, he opened Ristorante Castelli in Addis Ababa, and it is still there today, using the original pasta machine somehow acquired from Italy.
Given that many of the ingredients are imported, prices are remarkably low for top-notch, slightly old-fashioned Italian cuisine. The restaurant comprises four dining rooms and a semi-open kitchen, and it is rather formal, staffed by Ethiopian waiters unhurriedly delivering plates of ravioli and risotto to the tables of Addis’s elite, and – just possibly – Sir Bob Geldof, who describes Castelli’s as his favourite Italian restaurant. Dress up, and prepare for a culture shock.
Several Addis restaurants offer the full Ethiopian experience – exuberant dancing, music and the elaborate, incense-scented coffee ceremony – without being touristy. My favourite is Fasika (“Easter” in Amharic), where the bonhomie is thoroughly infectious. You will be served a big plate covered in what looks like a clammy bath mat: this is injera, the Ethiopian staple bread made from a grain called teff. It is cold, slightly sour and thoroughly delicious. Spicy concoctions are spooned on top – stews, sautéed meat and vegetables, and kitfo, a piquant kind of steak tartare – and you might drink tej, a honey wine, or local beer St George.
As was made clear to me by many locals, Ethiopia needs and welcomes tourism: visiting this beautiful country, from the astonishing rock-hewn churches of Lalibela in the north to the lakes and rolling hills in the south, stimulates the local economy and provides some unforgettable experiences. I was there to visit the programmes of Action Against Hunger, funded in part by the efforts of UK restaurants over the past decade, but I shall definitely return under my own steam.
Action Against Hunger’s supporters will themselves be well fed on October 9, when the annual fundraising Fine Wine Auction and Dinner takes place in London. Guest chefs include Mark Hix (pictured) and the legendary Pierre Koffmann, and all money raised will benefit AAH’s projects worldwide, especially their fight against child malnutrition.
For those hoping for an iPhone 5, Apple's "Let's Talk iPhone" event today might have been a disappointment. But the consumer electronics firm did grace the world with the new iPhone 4S, an overhaul from the iPhone 4 that also came with some breakthrough software in the form of the personal assistant program, Siri.
On stage at the event senior vice president of iPhone software Scott Forstall asked his phone: "What's the weather like today?" And Siri responded with the forecast.
That was just the beginning. Over the next few minutes, Forstall asked Siri to find him some Greek restaurants and arrange them by their ratings. He showed that Siri could set up business meetings, or search Wikipedia or search engine Wolfram Alpha - all by speaking to a phone in plain English, just as you would ask any human the same questions.
Such an apparent breakthrough in natural language processing promises to change the way we interact with our phones - say "find me a table at an Italian restaurant near my office for 7 pm" and Siri will get it done, even make you a reservation. Gizmodo likened this spooky level of personal service to the USS Enterprise's computer in Star Trek.
A rehearsed demo is all well and good, of course. But will it work as well as advertised in the real world? Google's Android supports voice commands such as sending a text message by speaking, but its performance is spotty at best.
But this is not Apple's first go-round with voice commands, or even Siri - the company released an early version of the software assistant in February last year. Now, powered by the iPhone 4S's faster A5 processor and integration with Apple's iCloud service, which processes voice commands on a remote server, the new and improved Siri does indeed look poised to raise the bar significantly. No word on whether Siri will also be available for the iPad 2 - which also sports an A5 processor - or Mac laptop and desktop systems.
Siri's roots can actually be traced back to 2003, when DARPA funded a research program called "Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes" or CALO. The intention was to create an automated assistant that could learn from the user and handle a variety of tasks. The project was lead by SRI International, a California based research institute - when it came to an end a number of people working on the CALO project founded Siri, and the company was snapped up by Apple.
Siri will come with support for English, French, and German at the start, with other languages to follow throughout the service's beta phase (not clear how it will handle strong accents, though). The assistant's voice recognition component is powered by software from Nuance, the company which also produces Dragon Naturally Speaking voice recognition software for Windows PCs. Their software supports other languages, but voice is just one component. Siri relies on other online services such as Rotten Tomatoes for movies or OpenTable for making restaurant reservations, and many of these offer a limited or no experience outside of the US.
Britons have been urged to shun establishments that feature non-traditional additions, writes Elizabeth Day
Italy's ambassador to the United Kingdom has advised British diners to shun "so-called Italian restaurants" that use inferior ingredients and serve second-rate food bearing little relation to authentic Italian cuisine.
Luigi Amaduzzi, Rome's ambassador to the Court of St James's, said that the British appreciation of Italian food had been dulled by "average" restaurants serving culinary disasters such as the ham and pineapple pizza, fruit-flavoured ice-cream and mozzarella that did not come from a buffalo.
"We have an enormous number of so-called Italian restaurants and it is a huge problem," he said. "I am very well aware that many restaurants call themselves Italian and are not Italian because their chefs are not Italian and their produce or recipes are not Italian.
"The majority of Italian restaurants in London are very much average and we must ensure a good standard. Customers must refuse to pay for something inferior."
The ambassador discreetly refused to name the worst restaurants in Britain, although he did question the credentials of large chains such as Cafe Pasta, which were "not owned by an Italian or run by Italian staff".
He also made clear his dislike of the ham and pineapple "Hawaiian" pizza as well as other "non-Italian" recipes. "If a chef puts pineapple on a pizza, the result is very far from the traditional Italian taste of mozzarella, tomato, basil leaves and maybe a small piece of anchovy," he said.
"Even the kind of pizzas that are considered 'Italian' - which have salami or prosciutto toppings - are all new additions. Some of these I don't like. I tend to be traditional in my tastes. Food is an art. It should be about creativity, but within limits."
Mr Amaduzzi's remarks were prompted by an attempt by the Italian ministry of agriculture and forestry to evaluate the authenticity of the 60,000 "Italian" restaurants and pizzerias across the world, which between them generate revenue of £17.5 billion a year.
Despite the ubiquitous red, white and green-themed decor, wine-bottle candlesticks and enormous pepper grinders, the ministry estimates that only 20 to 25 per cent of these restaurants will conform to the standards required.
The scheme, under which inspectors will award restaurants which are deemed to be genuinely "Italian" a sticker to denote their status, is due to be launched in Britain this year after being trialled in Berlin and Brussels.
To meet the criteria, a restaurant must employ a head chef trained in Italian cuisine and at least one Italian-speaking member of staff. It must also ensure that a minimum of 80 per cent of dishes served are traditional Italian recipes, that 60 per cent of wines, cheeses, meat and biscuits are Italian, and that all peeled tomatoes come from Italy.
The ambassador said that the initiative was a long overdue antidote to bad Italian restaurants. "Italian cuisine is simple, healthy and low in fat, but because it is simple, the quality of ingredients is essential," he said. "The inferior quality of ingredients used over here is one of the reasons Italian food tastes different."
Mr Amaduzzi, who is to leave his posting next month, urged dissatisfied customers not to eat at badly performing restaurants. "The restaurant prices are high enough in this country. Dissatisfied customers should not go back if the food is bad and expensive. The force of the free market is very strong and stronger than any kind of bureaucratic initiative."
Mr Amaduzzi conceded that there were many excellent Italian restaurants in London, including the Michelin-starred Locanda Locatelli, San Lorenzo and Carluccio's, the restaurant chain owned by the chef Antonio Carluccio.
The ambassador's comments were welcomed by Gennaro Contaldo, the head chef of Passione restaurant in central London. Mr Contaldo said that his particular gastronomic bete noire was the tikka masala pizza.
"These restaurants that call themselves 'Bella Pasta' or 'Ciao Pasta' or 'Pasta Pronto' just take two Italian words and put them together without making any sense," he said
"Then there are those Italian restaurants that have terrible decor, such as checked tablecloths that look like my shirt, flasks hanging from the ceiling and wine bottles with candles in them."
A spokesman for the Pizza Express chain, which also owns Cafe Pasta, declined to comment. Lorenzo Berni, the owner and head chef of San Lorenzo restaurant, said that the problem was not just confined to Britain.
"You can get bad food in Italy also," he said. "The main problem abroad is that many restaurants use Italian names - like Giorgio or Marco - when their owners are not Italian."
Giorgio Locatelli, the owner and head chef of Locanda Locatelli, was critical of his government's initiative. "I don't think you should play politics with food. For me, a good meal is not just about the food but the conviviality.
"It is very personal. If you want spaghetti lobster with parmesan, I can merely suggest that it would be better without, but what you put in your mouth is ultimately your business. He added: "I wish I had had the idea to put pineapple on a pizza, I would be a millionaire by now."
Mr Carluccio, who has published several Italian cookery books, expressed similar sentiments. "The Italian government would be much better promoting Italian food on television and educating people about the quality of food and where it comes from. Then people can make up their own minds about what they want to eat."

This Cheese is So Gross It’s Been Outlawed…

Casu Marzu, a pecorino cheese and Sardinian specialty, surely wins among most disgusting cheeses of the world. The direct translation is “rotten cheese” and rightly so: blocks of otherwise beautiful Italian pecorino cheeses are purposely prepared to become the natural breeding grounds for nests of maggots—the natural harbingers of rot and putrefaction. As if pecorino wasn’t pungent enough… 
Like many distinct ethnic practices and traditions, formaggio marcio, is a generations old culinary delicacy, with roots in familial history. The process of producing casu marzu, aka “maggot cheese,” is considered a process of finely metered fermentation. However regionally traditional the consumption of maggot-laced cheese, it hardly jives with modern food preparation and sanitation mores, therefore the offending cheese is officially illegal. Don’t let that stop you from searching for a chunk along your Italian travels, even if it will run you a steep number of Euros and from a “black market” peddler. “Godfather, you want formaggio marcio? We’ll get you formaggio marcio, don’t you worry.” Reports are it tastes exactly as you might imagine: strong pecorino, the crawly snot-plump bodies of insect larvae, and the slimy fat they’ve made of the digested cheese. Oh, and the worms jump off the cheese while you’re eating it. Mange!

About me: Born and raised in Chicago to Italian American parents. Married at age 19 to a nice Italian guy and guess what, we’re still happily married, what can I say, he likes my food! I have one daughter and one son all grown with families of their own.
As a child I can remember platters of food spread all over tables, ravioli drying on beds, family gathering together for special occasions, that’s the kind of memories I wanted to recreate for my own kids.
My blog is about sharing those traditions as well as updating some of the classics with a more modern and contemporary flair.
I love colorful food! I fill my grocery cart with so much produce that I sometimes get funny looks on occasion, I honestly get more joy out of food shopping then buying clothes , my husband says I look like I’m in Disneyland. I also adore fresh herbs, I will buy them in the dead of winter no matter what the price, especially basil!
I cook well under pressure, if suddenly I got a call that 20 people were coming over for dinner, I’d have no problem whipping something up!
You’ll always find a casual atmosphere here on my blog because that’s the way I cook, those who know me realize I’m not fond of exact measuring, so many times you’ll hear me say, “drizzle a healthy dose of olive oil” or, “sprinkle a generous amount of grated cheese”, “a handful of this and a handful of that, because that’s the way I was taught, of course I will always give you guidelines but I encourage you to taste along the way and make it your own. Home cooking should be fun and not rocket science!
I started Proud Italian Cook in 2007, it was the best thing I ever did for myself, and it still continues to bring me joy on a daily basis, especially when I get an email like this…
“Hello Proud Italian Cook, I found you accidentally several months ago and since then you have become my hero.  I’m not a blogger or a reader of blogs.  I have a decent amount of new and old cook books, but haven’t read one from end to end.  I never follow recipes, just read enough of them to get the general idea.  But I love to cook and I love to eat.  Though I’m average at both.
I’m guessing you are up to your neck in e-mails such as this one, so I’ll keep it short.  Proud Italian Cook reminds me of the Sunday afternoon baptism feasts in a four car garage, of watching the moms, dads, uncles, aunts play poker after Christmas dinner, of Turkey and ravioli on Thanksgiving Day, of tables buckling under the weight of trays covered in salami and cheese, of the heavy smell of tobacco, wine and sugo, of the regret over never having more than a handful of conversations with my grandfather who barely spoke American, of crying over the parts in movies that other people don’t cry at, of being proud that Freddy Cannon and Dion and John Fante are all Italians, of the sweet aroma of torrone, of stuffed zucchini and zucchini flowers, of being embarrassed in classrooms and crowded doctors’ offices when my name was called out and mispronounced, of being dragged against my will to church every Sunday just to stand next to my father who kept looking at his watch every five minutes, of being in a room looking up at older people who were yelling, laughing like crazy people and dramatically gesticulating like a dozen conductors supervising an invisible symphony, madly trying to out-conduct each other and of so many other things that I can’t think of them all right now.
Please never stop.
Your fan,
Darin”
Besides creating recipes I enjoy sharing local food finds here in Chicagoland, my favorite restaurants and hidden treasures that I frequent, my favorite gadgets and kitchen musts that work for me.
I cook, photograph and write all content here, it’s my life through food!

Her name is Benedetta, a word that in Italian means "blessed," and it would be fair to say that Benedetta Vitali isblessed with a singular palate. She is quick to detect and analyze flavor distinctions, and she combines ingredients into something new and unusual. Add to that a fierce devotion to the traditions of her native Tuscany and an inquiring mind that has led her all over Italy in search of unique products, and you begin to understand why a trek to Vitali's Zibibbo restaurant on the outskirts of Florence has become a gastronomic pilgrimage for many. And why her beautifully illustrated cookbook, Soffritto: Tradition & Innovation in Tuscan Cooking, a sort of philosophy of the kitchen told through recipes, is winning critical acclaim all around the world. 
Sunny and bright, with big windows that open onto a leafy grove, Zibibbo has the comfortable feel of a neighborhood restaurant, as if it were not in the Tuscan capital but in some much smaller, provincial town. Since it opened three years ago, its bar has been a place where a group of locals can be found at any time of day gossiping over cappuccino and espresso. Situated just off Piazza Careggi at the northern edge of town, Zibibbo is not a glamorous restaurant at all, but rather a place where food is to be enjoyed at ease and with gusto.
And what food! This is contemporary Italian cooking at its best: innovative, "but not something that's just fallen out of the heavens," Vitali says with a laugh. Her cuisine is direct and honest--"frank" is the word she uses. Consider a typical Zibibbo antipasto, insalata di polpo, which combines meaty, tender chunks of octopus with yellow-fleshed potatoes. "The ones I used today are from Campania--not new potatoes but the last of the season, because their texture is better for salads," Vitali explains. The octopus salad is served on a bed of delicate, immature radicchio leaves, each barely bigger than my thumb. Dressed with a rich, deeply-flavored Tuscan olive oil and little else, it is a dish that lingers in my memory.
Vitali refers to her style as cucina giornaliera, cuisine of the day. "In my kitchen, a refrigerator isn't necessary, because what I buy in the morning I cook that day," she explains. Simplicity is such a buzzword with chefs today that it's hard to think of it as more than a culinary fad; to Tuscan cooks like Vitali, however, simplicity means looking at a dish and considering not what you can add to make it perfect, but what you can subtract.
This philosophy has informed her career since 1979, when she and her former husband, Fabio Picchi, opened Cibrèo, a restaurant near the center of Florence next to the open-air Sant' Ambrogio market. Cibrèo quickly became one of the city's most noted eating places, not least because of the couple's insistence on filling their menu with truly Tuscan dishes. They banished the pasta course that had become a national addiction, serving only traditional Tuscan soups and vegetable-based minestrones as the primo. Cibrèo brought a sense of adventure to a city where the best restaurants rarely offered anything more intriguing than bistecca alla fiorentina.
Vitali's book remains true to these principles. She gives just five recipes for pasta dishes, although she includes a number of simple sauces that can be served on pasta. The book begins with an explanation of the most basic Tuscan technique of all, the soffritto, a flavor base of aromatics, such as onions and garlic, gently sautéed in olive oil, on which many recipes are built. For this knowledge, she credits her former mother-in-law, and her mother-in-law's mother-in-law before her, back through the generations: "My mother-in-law used to tell me that, once having learned it, I would be able to make practically everything," Vitali writes. "In Tuscany, soffritto is the starting point."
Vitali may have profound attachments to Tuscan traditions, but she also feels attracted to the food of Sicily, where she can still find flavors and ingredients that have been handed down through centuries--salted capers and anchovies, dried wild oregano and hot little peperoncini (chiles) with which to marinate sliced eggplant. Even the name of her restaurant, Zibibbo, is Sicilian, from the Arabic word for raisin. (It's also the name of a variety of white grapes, grown on the island of Pantelleria, off the coast of Sicily, that produces an intensely aromatic sweet wine.)
Her Sicilian-style sweet-sour swordfish harks back to complex Arab and Roman flavor combinations. I have had many versions of fusilli alle sarde, fresh sardines with pungent wild fennel greens, plump golden raisins and olive oil, in Sicily, where it is practically the national dish, but Vitali's take on it is the most nearly perfect of all--the result, I feel, of her selecting pristine ingredients and combining them with a balance of sweet, salty, earthy and tart flavors.
Yet Vitali is Florentine born and bred, with a manner of cooking that expresses what I think of as the Protestant sobriety of Tuscans in the kitchen. Olive oil--tinged with the bitterness of barely mature olives--is the key to her food. And because Tuscans are frugal (some say parsimonious) by nature, ingredients are tied to the seasonal profusion of the farmland that stretches along the Arno valley. No Dutch hothouse peppers will ever have the flavor of locally raised sweet peppers, especially when roasted and served with ricotta made from the milk of Tuscan sheep and sprinkled with sun-baked thyme from a Tuscan summer meadow.
To find ingredients like these, Vitali forages through city markets and the countryside, looking for old-fashioned varieties such as the deeply ridged, costoluto fiorentino tomatoes that are in season only in late summer and fall. As for garlic: "It's incredible," she says, shaking her head, "but the garlic I find in our markets is imported from China most of the time--all because of globalization."
Fortunately, across the road from Zibibbo there's a vegetable garden tended for the sheer joy of it by three retired pensionati who, when I was there in April, provided the restaurant with the last of the cardoons and cavolo nero (Tuscan kale) and the first bacelli (whole fava beans in their pods), spinach and bitter greens.
The produce from the garden has quickly became an integral part of the restaurant and a deep source of inspiration, Vitali says, not just for herself but for her entire staff. With ingredients like these, with a confident hand in the kitchen and with boundless enthusiasm for what she is achieving, Benedetta Vitali is bringing hercucina giornaliera to the world.

The foods in Italy speak of sun, music, zest for life and exuberant joy. Italians love food; for them, food is pleasure as much as nourishment. Their cooking is pretty straightforward. Italians rely in a few flavor combinations and simple cooking methods, but they also combine love, instinct and skill with their food. It shows.
Foods in Italy come a close second to those in France, still considered the embodiment of gourmet cooking in the eyes of many food lovers. Opposed to the prudent and measured French, Italians are generous with ingredients. They also know how to present a lavish table. Their outgoing personality glows when their efforts are appreciated and praise is expected.
Best foods in Italy

Pasta is the Italian food of world fame, and usually the center of attention in a meal. For a family dinner, pasta would be the main course, other side dishes around. For a formal dinner, pasta would be served just before the main course.
Italian pasta varies through the country. Big pasta tubes, like rigatoni, are preferred in the south; stuffed pasta shapes, like ravioli, are a specialty of the northern regions, while tagliatelle predominates in the center. Spaghetti is everywhere.
Antipasto - before pasta, literally - is the traditional opening for an Italian meal. It consists of pickled vegetables, salami, ham, salads, even seafood salad or other cold seafood, in small portions. Antipasto is often followed by a soup, not necessarily minestrone, which could constitute a meal by itself.
If not previously served as antipasto, a salad would appear as side dish. Italian salads are colorful, think green zucchini, bright red tomatoes, and black olives, or white mozzarella against red tomatoes sprinkled with green fresh basil. Italian salad dressing is always based on olive oil.
Though Italians use all types, veal reigns between the Italian meats. As scaloppini, roasted, stuffed chops or other recipe, there is a good chance it would be chosen as main course for a formal dinner.
Italians are also cheese loving people. Parmigiano reggiano and other strong flavored cheeses, like grana padano or pecorino Romano, are grated on top of pasta. Fresh fruit and soft flavored cheese put many times a fitting end to an Italian meal. They also love creamy desserts like pana cotta, cream stuffed canoli, tiramisu and, of course, ice cream.

Unique and well-made pastas, good selections on the menu. Service was very good. Nice atmosphere. Couples should try and sit near the back. It's kind of loud outside since it's in a smoky casino, though.

The restaurant that used to be in this spot was one of our favorites. We always went for the lobster ravioli. We walked from one end of the strip to the other to have dinner, but we were disappointed to see our favorite was no longer on the menu. We did find alternatives on the menu posted in front, so we decided to give it a try. When we got the wine list, we were shocked. Outrageous was the only word that came to mind. Far more expensive than other restaurants on the strip. Then we ordered the meal that was posted on the menu up front. No longer on the menu! When we asked about it, the waiter said sometimes the menu changes and the readerboard doesn't get updated. It's a computer--how long could it take. We ended up ordering a Caesar Salad. We got what would barely qualify as a side salad at a normal restaurant and paid $12. Two glasses of wine and one Caesar Salad for $40. Never again.

Nice place. Relatively inexpensive and comfortable. The waiters are very knowledgeable and try to create a relaxed dining experience.
I had bacala croquettes for starter which were nice and mainly fish rather than potato, only negative would be the dryness of the filling. For main I had the seafood pasta which was lovely home made pasta with the usual seafood suspects swimming in a tomato and olive oil sauce. Then a cheese plate to finish - this was really nice with a hard, a soft and a blue with all the accompaniments you could ask for.
The wines were lovely I don't know what we had, but they did match the food - even a sickly sweet one to go with the cheese plate. I probably would have been better off with a cold beer or four.
Next time I will go back for the $35 three course lunch. It has limited options but it all looked like the good stuff.
The restaurant decor feels a little sterile in contrast to the food and service, but I am sure this will be tempered with age. It feels like it could become a really lovely inner suburban regular. There's just too many choices of places to try and go back to.
Of all the Bianco restaurants, Italian restaurant is by far my favorite.  It is the best of all three worlds; pizza, pasta and sandwiches, all with the familiar Chris Bianco style of fresh, local ingredients and food made from beginning to end all in house.  
I would definitely say the worst thing about the restaurant is trying to decide what you want to eat!  You could always do what I did though and go with people who love to share!  We had three things the day I went for lunch: Josh's foraging fowls chicken salad with fingerling potato salad, house made mozzarella and prosciutto de Parma, and a special which included fresh made orecchiette pasta with sausage.  This was definitely one of those meals where you did not know what to eat first, because you weren't sure which dish you wanted to last the longest!
Chef John Hall is also a great addition to the newest Bianco restaurant since his farm-to-table background is right in line with the restaurant's concept.  Hiring him was definitely a smart move on their behalf. 
Sincerely looking forward to my next meal at one of my favorite Phoenix restaurants!

I heard about the recent changes and I thought we should give this place another try. 

Everything we had THIS TIME was very well crafted and made with the finest local ingredients. The prices were also very reasonable for this kind of quality and the portions were more than we needed.

The pasta e fagioli was made with assorted heirloom beans including scarlet red runner beans and the pasta was well crafted and al dente. The soup was made really well.

I had the chicken salad plate. The chicken salad was made with this really well developed dark meat chicken that was cooked so perfect it was a joy to eat. I think it had a little mustard and oil holding it together and it had tiny pieces of green apple and pecans though it making it tasty and delicious. I really enjoyed the vegetable salad on my plate. It was made with heirloom fancy red carrots and heirloom radishes , fresh crunchy cabbage , and parsnips. The vegetable salad seemed light and tasty. On the other end of my plate was fingerling potato salad. The potatoes were warm creamy texture and sort of mustardy. Overall I was very impressed with this $10.00 dish as it far exceeded my expectations.

My husband enjoyed the grilled mortadella and braised cabbage sandwich. The flavors went together well and this sandwich came with a salad. $9.50.

I liked that they got rid of the community tables and made that area a bar.

Unlike my other visits here Chef Bianco was in the house and everything prepared was perfect. I hope when he is not there that his place will run just the same.

This place is amazing and absolutely nothing less than I'd expect from a place that the Bianco name is associated with.  The scratch made pasta is fantastic and isn't drowned in some crappy store style sauce like so many places.  The sauce brings a fresh from the garden, bright, clean, no nonsense flavor to each dish.  The slow roasted pork dish(es), oh mah gawd goodness (CHRIS, Pork Belly, YES please).  Who orders the chicken, I did and it was great too.  I think I've tried all the sides, and will probably keep doing so.  The pizza, more choices down at their Pizzeria but still very good.  Dessert, hell yeah.....can I get the rice pudding in a bucket to go as well?

As for the service and servers, NEVER ONCE been anything but solid in every way possible.  As a blue collar working class guy I work hard for my money,and this is one place I will open the wallet to eat at.

I'm not going to give you a long-winded and pretentious review here. I went here for the first time to celebrate my mom's birthday. There were 8 of us including my 8 year old and 5 year old.  Everything from the crostini to our main entrees was fantastic. No, the meatballs weren't my favorite but that won't keep me from coming back. Overall, good atmosphere, excellent food and attentive service.

Not a good meal.  Meatballs and chickpea crepes were too salty. Eggplant and spinach was an unappetizing greasy pile of slime and tasted oily.  The meatballs were accompanied by truly tasteless tomato sauce.  The pasta was nothing special.  Crispy Brussels sprouts were anything but..undercooked and chewy.   And three slices of bread was brought to the table with just enough olive oil for two slices.

I'll start this off by saying I really wanted to like this restaurant. After hearing mixed reviews I kept an open mind, but unfortunately was dealt a mediocre experience. 

The interior was cute, however you can tell that whoever chose the furniture didn't sit in each seat beforehand. We were at what could have been a cute little Italy type of table, but it was SO little that everyone's knees could not fit underneath it. Definitely more little kid than little Italy.  

Another atmosphere downer was how HOT it was inside. Granted it was 116 degrees outside but the open kitchen layout wasn't helping Bianco's case - nor was the server who kept opening the patio door. 

I will say the food was the best part of our experience, however it was mediocre Italian at best. The spaghetti...was spaghetti. I'd make it at home before coming back to order. The gnochhi was the best dish at the table and it was the corn that really made it. The cavatelli was decent (but I was glad I didn't order it) and our friend who ordered the pappardelle was apparently pleased because he ate it all.

If you're a Bianco fan, I'd say give it a go - maybe you'll get a better table, a less awkward server and food worth going back for; it just didn't happen on our visit.

Place is awesome, genuine, and truly authentic.
If you're some uppity Newport snob or over privileged tourist, you'll easily find fault.
I've been to Lucia over a dozen times and the food is outstanding!!!
Service? Whatever...it's like a homespun eatery where Italian temperaments can sometimes dictate the mood of the venue (and yes, I'm of the same heritage.) 
Don't be discouraged by the neg reviews as they're absurd. Give this place a try; you won't realize just how amazing the cuisine is until you actually eat there...

I love little Lucia. It's an adorable spot that I felt so comfortable in from the moment we walked inside. Green life everywhere, casual "at home" environment... a menu that my total opposite, carnivore husband could dive into while I salivated over more than one vegan option for me! When the two of us can eat somewhere and we're both happy, I'm in Heaven. 

I highly recommend the seitan entree and the Roman-style fava beans... stewed with garlic and "gravy" for hours ... to die for! A "will return" for both of us.

My wife and I were touring Thames Street looking for a good dinner location. As we perused the menu posted outside of Lucia's, a couple was just entering. The lady told us that they had eaten there last night, and it was so good they came back. We decided to try it, and that was a good decision. The restaurant is small, with subdued lighting - rather romantic. The menu was not large, but had several Italian selections. I ordered the manicotti and my wife got ravioli. The waitress was very courteous and efficient. The usual bread was brought, but it was still warm from the oven, and delicious. When the entrees came, they were delectable. The manicotti was superb, with an excellent sauce and very delicious filling - probably the best I've had anywhere. My wife said her ravioli was delicious as well and was glad that we had decided to eat here. The price was very comparable to most places along Thames and in the Newport area in general. Highly recommended if you like authentic Italian food.

First greet Lucia, the owner. She's a pleasure to chat with if it's not too busy. Her menu has a little something for everyone including plenty of vegetarian dishes. The proportions are just perfect and the dishes so yummy. Since my husband and I summer in Newport, we try to find new "hot" spots and always return to Lucia's. The restaurant is cozy with a feel of being in one's home. We had a lovely, attentive waitress, great table by the window, and delicious wine. 

Strongly recommend making reservations as to not be disappointed at the door.

We chose this restaurant as it was close to our hotel. We really appreciated that all the vegetarian items were clearly marked on the menu. We enjoyed the seitan entrees as well as the pizza. Our server Matt was friendly and helpful in ensuring that the items were served without cheese/dairy for my vegan husband.

This restaurant is located on the main street upstairs, the service is poor and the food nothing special. The menu lists all italian dishes but the flavour of them is only a poor memory of italy.
We went there twice and in both occasion the waiter was not warm nor friendly. A little expensive for the quality.

My husband and I had a lovely evening at this restaurant - it was our second visit and happened to be Valentine's Weekend and there was a special menu on offer and live jazz music. The food was delicious and beautifully presented. The Restaurant was busy but the staff were attentive and we were not hurried through our meal. We will look out for future offers and bring some friends along next time.

We were so pleased to read how much you enjoyed your return visit, the valentines event was indeed very much enjoyed by all. And I would like to thank you for taking the time to write a review, and for your kind comments regarding our team.

The team are most certainly preparing many more events and are busy researching our new menu which we hope will be ready for April. The restaurant has just been awarded a gold award for our efforts for sustainability and working with our local suppliers which are all very proud too. We have alot coming up so do keep a look out in the local press and on our websites.

We very much look forward to seeing you again very soon.

We ate in the restaurant from the Valentines menu and the food was amazing. There was a big group of us and we were looked after brilliantly. Good service, lovely staff and the jazz band in the background finished it off nicely.
We will definitely eat here again next time we visit Coventry.

Went as a group of 8 on business meal out.

Service was slow including drinks. Why? it was a Wednesday evening with some tables but not mega busy.

They missed a starter. But was rectified fairly quick.

I felt like I was contantly have to ask for more drinks and food etc.

One waitress was pretty helpful and nice the rest just seem to blob around and let her do all the work. I am familair with this at my work funnily enough!

The barman was polite but very slow off the mark.

The food and my bellinis was nice and no quarms with that at all.

Prices were not bad either.

Overall I would go again but would hope the service was quicker and more off the mark.

I visited here in November while on a business trip to London. I was looking for a quick, tasty supper. The restaurant was very busy and the food came a bit too quickly for my liking. The chicken I ordered was drenched in oil and when I complained the waitress confirmed it had been deep-fried. I had also ordered a side of spring greens which was a pitiful tiny pile of green shreds, also coated in oil, for £4 - a total rip-off. The waitress dealt with my complaint very well and I chose another chicken dish that had not been fried (without the expensive side dish). I have no idea why this restaurant was so busy. I would really expect more from a famous chef with a reputation to uphold.

I've not been to a Jamies' Restaurant before but considering he is a famous chef I would expect it to be of a high standard. We visited the one in Westfield West London. It was very busy and we had to wait a while for a table at the small and rather squashed bar area, where it took AGES to get a drink. We were thankfully seated at a larger table with lights as I was dreading sitting at the small squashed tables for 2 with no light and not being able to read the menu! A bit more light please Jamie. Anyway, the service was friendly and quite quick. I ordered a burger, which I must say was very good. However, I was disappointed that my chunky chips were under cooked. I did complain and so did another table that I noticed, for the same reason. They were very good and I got a new portion. These were slightly better but still quite hard and a little under cooked, which I really didn't expect from such a restaurant. I've had much better chips from the fish and chip shop! If they'd been cooked properly they would have been tasty, so I'd say that needs addressing. My partner's chicken liver pasta was nice, he said, but there was not much on it at all and only about 2 livers in total. That really is not good enough! Anyway, The atmosphere was quite buzzy although quite loud and the waiters were so busy it was difficult to get their attention. I'd say this is not a bad restaurant at all (maybe better for a family or party) and we enjoyed our evening for the most part. It was not too overpriced, although not cheap either, but I just would have expected even better food from a famous chef.

this was a special treat for my birthday, but it didnt feel special at all, we have been to other Jamie resteraunts before and came away really happy and satisfied. Portions were too small, my hubby was so dissapointed with his main, he is a man... not an insect, mine was more fullfilling than his, but then my lamb stew with a rosemary crust....really was a crust around the edge of the pot which i had to scrape off and hope i didnt ping at our nieghboring table guests....what a shame, i think i will stick to cooking his style at home, and not trying his places, maybe he is getting too commercialised, so he cant oversee what he started off...get back to the old skool Jamie...check out what they are up to! Also, our reservation coulndn't be found, but luckely we were seated quickly

The restaurant was nice, but that was about it. It starts badly with the ditsy waitress. The whole place is empty except for one other couple and she walks us over to sit directly beside them. I mean we would have been so close that you would have thought we were together. I looked at the waitress like she lost her mind. I asked for another table further away and she obliged, with confusion.

The starters were very good, but the kitchen screwed up the order and starters came out separately instead of together as requested. Had the Italian bread mix, antipasto and fried ravioli. Antipasto was a bit small.

We then had the risotto and pasta with meatballs. The risotto was salty, and the pasta sauce was average at best. Meatballs were good.

All in all, it was a less than average experience. Disappointing.

This is my first ever restaurant review, so bear with me!

My wife was sent to London for three weeks work at Canary Wharf, and so I decided to book a flight to come join her at the end of her first week for a long weekend visit. As fans of Jamie Oliver, we had decided to go and try one of his restaurants for the first time pretty much as soon as I arrived off the Tube from the Airport.

Despite the restaurant being pretty much packed, and without us having pre-booked, our friendly, smiley and helpful host made a great effort to go and arrange a table for us on the spot without us having to wait. The only slight gripe I might have (if I'm nit-picking) is that - having just got off the plane - I had arrived at the restaurant with a small hand-luggage size suitcase in tow, and it would have been nice if one of the staff had have suggested that they maybe take it from me and store it for me whilst we dined - but they didn't, and so it sat kind of awkwardly on the floor beside me throughout our meal - the same went for our coats. (It was only a little later that we realised there were coat hangers attached to some of the pillars on the restaurant). But I'm happy to say that this is my only slightly negative thing to report for the whole experience.

The restaurant was so vibrant and full of atmosphere - informal but without scrimping on the little details that remind you that you are out for a nice dining experience - so we relaxed in immediately, and the two of us were grinning as we drooled over the beautiful menu choices. If the huge list of stuff on the menu didn't tickle your pickle (but there really is something for everyone on it!), there was a yummy board full of fresh specials to choose from too. From looking at the menu, it was so easy to imagine that everyone in the kitchen would be creating these beautiful-sounding dishes with the love and passion and focus on flavour that Jamie so regularly demonstrates in pretty much every single one of his TV shows. When the food arrived, needless to say we weren't disappointed!

My wife opted for the risotto balls - something which neither of us have ever heard of before- and they were just scrummy when scoffed with the little spicy sauce that accompanied them. I had the posh mushrooms on toast, which were simple and on the delicious side of "garlicky", not at all overpowering - and you could tell the bread was made fresh in house - and all perfectly seasoned and herby :)

Diners next to us ordered some of the tapas style planks, which looked lush! Would definately like to give those a go next time! 

For mains my wife had the Sausage Pappadelle, which was flavoured with a gorgeous rich fennel ragu, full of red wine and herbs, and I opted for the Seafood Bucatini on our waiter's recommendation - something he was delighted to do for us - and being Italian himself, we reckoned his word on what was good would be good enough for us! I'm only sorry I didn't ask his name, as he really deserves to be singled out for individual praise - he was an absolute star throughout our meal - he was friendly, full of chat, full of recommendations and made us feel very welcome and entertained throughout, without dropping the high standard of service at all - and this was all while dealing with a long table of around 16 guests beside us who were there for a party, and all of whom paid for their meals seperately! He certainly earned his tip from them as well as us!

I couldn't believe how much (expensive) seafood was crammed into my Bucatini - they really didn't hold back! Huge prawns, squid rings, baby squid, mussels, crab claws, scallops and clams! It arrived in a cool looking paper bag after being steam cooked, and the flavours were amazing - beautifully cooked and seasoned seafood, punchy capers, rich wine and just the right amount of chilli and garlic - and when the lemon wedge on the side was squished over everything, it just made me think that I couldn't remember ever having this nice a meal in the mediterranean itself! Sooo fresh and bursting with flavour. All served with light, fresh, hand-made pasta - and all of that for a price of £14.50?? Bargain! And my dish was one of the more expensive ones on the menu!

For dessert, we split a rich and gooey chocolate pot with a light lemon-y Zabaglione on top (the latter being a first for us both), along with a bonus extra plate of biscotti for us as we were sharing - all without us asking for them - these are the kinds of simple little touches that make up truly great service. All in all, we had two starters, two mains, one dessert, two espressos and a bottle of nice italian wine - and despite of all of this generously portioned food, the bill was just over £70.00. Service charge was not added to the bill, which I was actually surprised at given how attentive and accomodating the staff had been - as the standard of service we received definately warranted it being added to our bill automatically. This was really nice to see, and if anything, it made me want to be as generous as I could for with our tip, as it felt like I was paying it because it was earned by the staff, not because it was expected. How it should be, if you ask me! :)

I really can't recommend this place enough - so easy to get to on the tube, and there was a section full of stuff you could then buy if you wanted to - not just Jamie Oliver stuff, but stuff like the ingredients that were used to actually recreate the meal we just enjoyed.

It's worth pointing out that the toilets were also spotless despite it being a busy Friday night - something which my wife says is an important indicator of how clean the kitchen is! Clean Toilets = Clean Kitchen!

I just want them to get their finger out and open up in Belfast!! We're crying out for it over here!

We went out for diner, not having previous reservations at Jamie's Italian. It was a good experience. We ate pasta and sea food and it was all great. The place looks really good and the kitchen can be seen from the restaurant floor. Everything very clean and tidy. The service was equally good, the waitress did help us decide on what to eat and her suggestions were approved by all of us. We also drank some Prosseco, also suggested by the waitress and it was all good. I do recommend. After this first experience, I had a second meal on Jamie's Italian at Gatwick airport. The service was really fast and food quality standed up to expectations. I do recommend. It is not extremely fancy, but, in general, very, very good!

We ate here with 2 kids after dropping 2 others at the O2 for a concert. This was a fab option as was able to book a table (which i wanted as we had a 9yr old with us) and all the restaurant nr the O2 wont take reservations on event nites. The O2 was hectic and Jamies was an oasis of sanity! One tube stop from North Greenwich and a 5min walk through Canary Wharf, the restaurant was easy to find, large and although we were early they were happy to help and seat us. The starter of antipasti meats/cheeses was amazing - really delicious and we all shared. The bread selection also lovely. For our main courses myself and my daughter had the burger and garlic fries which was really good - couldn't finish it all - the flavours were great. My husband had the steak which he said was vg. My only criticism is that the childrens menu is a little limited and also i would not recommend for over 7s my son - who is not a massive eater - found the portion sizes a bit small. I would like to see maybe 2 portion size options and maybe a couple of kids starters - although my son was happy to share ours.
The waiter was very busy but took time to explain the menu and he noticed that we had not been given the wine we ordered - pretty good as he was just walking past! Overall i thought the food, the location and the service was great. One word of warning - the eve we went was very cold (snow) and the large glass wall is lovely to look at but cold to sit next to!!!

Poorly composed menu, poorly executed cooking. 

I had the rabbit tagliolini. The only intetesting looking thing on the menu. The meat was not very tender. The "ragu" was an extremely lemony cream-like concoction. The pasta was unremarkable. 

My friend had the burger. It was over-cooked and he got stung an additional £3 or £4 for some chips. 

My other friend had the bream and really enjoyed it. 

The tiramisu was heavy and claggy. The added orange zest did not work, as anticipated? Why did I not ask for it without? I did. 

Throwing things together and using non-obvious flavours might look good on TV but it did not work well on the plate in this restaurant. There needs to be some fusion or some evolution of taste. Otherwise you are just creating a jarring juxtaposition.

Popped into Cardiff as kids had been to an audition and they thought it would be fun to go. Service was super fast at first, too fast as 3 young children can take some time to decide. Ordered drinks then waited and waited for food order to be taken, eventually after we discussed leaving, the orders were taken. The food arrived promptly and was devoured and was very very nice. My son ordered the kids fish fingers which was served on a wooden board which was rough on the side and my son suddenly screamed as he pulled a splinter from his finger. I advised the waitress who showing no concern came back with a plate and no offer of an apology as my son sat there crying. I suggested an apology was in order to which her response was 'I will get the manager' ????? He arrived and I pointed out the board but explained all that required was for someone to apologise to my upset son.i didn't want an accident report and we are not going ' to take the matter further'. An accident is an accident yet an apology shows concern. We needed to visit the bathroom, the ladies was a hit or miss affair if you could find a roll of loo paper on the cistern!!!! We ate our food the kids ate their 'free' 50p ice cream and that was our Jamie Oliver experience. For us, we would go back for the food only, for our children, never

Went here for my boyfriend's birthday a few weeks ago. As it was a Sunday night, we had agreed not to book anywhere and just see what we fancied on the night. We decided on Jamie's as there are some nice chicken dishes and we both love the minute steak (which we later found out had been removed from the menu.)

We arrived and were invited to order a drink at the bar whilst we waited for a table, which was ready in a few minutes. As we sat down with our drinks, we were told that they had run out of several things, including chicken. On looking at the menu, we could see that it had been completely changed (not for the better in our opinion.) My boyfriend ordered the salmon and me, another type of steak. His salmon was very undercooked and we had to send it back, at which point the manager came over to apologise. He agreed it was very undercooked and offered some money off the bill and another meal which we accepted. The steak I had was good and I enjoyed it, though I have had better elsewhere. 

Although the food was not up to scratch and we felt they really could have told us that they had run out of something as fundamental to a restaurant as chicken when we walked in, the waiter we had was fantastic. Didn't catch his name but he was Irish and definitely in the right job, he couldn't apologise enough for the situation and spent time chatting to us. If he had not been so good with us, we probably would have left very annoyed and submitted a complaint, but even after everything, we left smiling. Give that man a raise

not as expensive as I had expected! 

Restaurant looked brilliant and the atmosphere really added to the meal in my opinion.
The waiter was very enthusiastic and friendly, as well as being very knowledgeable about the food which was wonderful to experience. 
The food was very nice, although the nacho starter was disappointing as they were more like ravioli! The bread is enough to share between two as a starter, but the mains were wonderful (we had a carbonara from the specials menu and a burger - which was enormous!)

I went to Jamie's Italian tonight with a group of girlie friends. On arrival everything looked great, relaxed atmosphere, very friendly informed staff. We all ordered with the help of our lovely waitress who knew her menu well. The problem started when the food arrived. When the dish I ordered arrived it was only mildly warm and the side of 'flash cooked green veg' was sadly anything but flash cooked. Very disappointing when the main alone was £10.25 and the side £3.95. The portion size was fine for me as my appetite is small but had I been a burly fella I would defiantly have gone hungry. The main tasted good but really not as good as I had expected. 

Pudding went some way to vindicating Jamie's. I had an brownie which was lovely (but not amazing).

Disappointingly there is a 15% compulsory service charge for groups over 6. I found this a little steep (especially as the meal was not faultless)and I would much rather have tipped our waitress directly given the great service she did offer.

To summerize,our expectstions were high, the atmosphere is great, the staff are fantastic and the menu looks amazing, but sadly this doesn't translate into amazing food. For the price you pay at Jamies you can get an amazing meal out elsewhere in York.

Well i was very disappointed by this restaurant. Maybe i was expecting too much. 
The restaurant itself is very nice....decoration and situation wise. Food was not as what i was expecting. I had the black spaghetti. Nothing at all to write home about. It was supposed to be scallops and black ink spag. Not much taste (I have had black ink rice and black ink pasta abroad and it tasted so muchdifferent) the scallops were the tiniest things i had ever seen and at first i thought they were mussels!! hmmm, that doesnt say much.
I must admit when the waitress, who was very nice, came over and asked if we were enjoying our meal. i had to tell her. There wasnt anything particularly wrong with the food. it was just tasteless and boring.Waitress sent manageress over.Who was also very nice and didnt charge me for my meal and also gave a free desert. All in all very disappointed...but like i said maybe i was expecting too much?

This place has incredible food. Being from Chicago, I wouldn't say their pizza is that great, but their entrees are definitely worth the money. It's a little pricey, but Italian food usually is (for reasons I have yet to figure out, because pasta is not expensive). The main reason I look forward to going to this place is the garlic rolls. They are absolutely fantastic! Good food, good service, 2 locations in the town of Gatlinburg, casual, family friendly, EAT THE GARLIC ROLLS!!

This restaurant has always been one of our favorites when in Gatlinburg. The garlic rolls are to die for and the clam linguini is sooooo good! The salads so cold, crisp and plentiful. 
Everything that we have ever tried has been wonderful. The wait staff always friendly and helpful. The ambiance of the older restaurant sweet and sort of old worldly. BUT.......after eating there on Saturday and looking over the check, my husband could not believe that we had been charged $1.00 each for a glass of water! We couldn't believe it! We were told that they had put in a filtered water line and that was the reason for the charge. Come on! Surely this is not necessary. If we ask for tap water will there be a charge? This stinks worse than my breath after eating your delicious rolls!

As soon as I walked in I knew I had made a mistake. This place is totally out dated and dirty. My husband insisted we stay, so I reluctantly agreed. We ordered the garlic knots to start, they were stale tasting and dry, yet there was a large puddle of oil in the bottom of the plate, it was gross. My husband requested a bit of red sauce for dipping. It took the waitress 10 minutes to bring the sauce and when it got there he was already done with the rolls. My husband had a calzone which he said was ok and I had the chicken parm sandwich which was nothing special. The kicker came when received the check and we were charged $2.50 for a side of marinara which we didn't even use and $1.98 for 2 glasses of tap water. Not worth it, skip this place and find something better if you are in town.

The food at this place is really very tasty, but the quality of service is poor. We had to wait over an hour pasta, though in the hall except there were only three occupied tables! Garlic rolls were incredibly delicious! I am also confused by the fact that the juice and water brought in beer mugs (and this in an Italian cafe / restaurant!). All in all, this place is not left a bad impression, but the more I shall come here not because of the slow service.

For great Italian food I come here. The food is wonderful. I don't think I've had anything here I don't like. The service is always great as well. I absolutely love the atmosphere and will keep going back as long as they keep the doors open.

Yum cheese ravioli. It was very tasty. The bread was great too.

Really good food has baked ziti it was good amazing service waitress was really nice and I give it 5 stars

My husband and I like to try different restaurants. We've dined @ Franks for three times now and have not been disappointed at any time. The food portions are generous and they are all flavorful. Warm and friendly service from staff, too. We highly recommend this restaurant to anyone looking for good Italian food.

When walking in there was no host or hostess. My wife and I stood there for 5 minutes before the busser said just write down your name. Sign 1 to leave. Then someone at the counter asked if there was a manager available and he replied, not really. Sign 2 to leave. We had a scatter brained waitor who didn't know how to do his job. The bread and dipping oil was FANTASTIC. We ordered stuffed mushrooms, $8. There was only FOUR!!! Sure, stuffed with crab, but seriously FOUR!?!? Covered in a Chef Boyardee sauce. Same as my wife´s carbonara. I had the chicken scalapini, it was ok. We got charged $4 for water too. Probably the worst, overall, dining experience ever.

Frank's is a simple, unassuming place for your classic $12/plate Italian dinner. While the restaurant wasn't terribly busy (30% full), the service was great in a way that I imagine it would be the same at full capacity. The bread and dipping oil were surprising, looking and tasting much better than I've had at more expensive restaurants.
My mozzarella sticks were okay- they were the typical pre-formed and pre-battered kind you get everywhere- and the marinara on the side was nothing to speak of.
For the entree, I had the chicken (and) tortellini modomio (literally, chicken and tortellini "my way"). "My way" for this house was a white wine sauce that was well seasoned. The chicken was quite good cooked in the sauce/broth and thecheese tortellini was tender, if plain.
All this along with a glass of sweet tea (not too sweet- just enough to know you're South) filled me up enough I didn't dare order dessert.
I witnessed several pizzas come from the kitchen while I was there, and every one smelled really good. That'll be on my list for next time!

My nose led me into Gino's in Lincoln's Bailgate district. On a Friday night, on my own, I contemplated some takeaway in my hotel room but the rich, garlicky smell of Gino's tomato sauce could not be denied.

And I was not disappointed. This is an old fashioned, red-sauce style Italian restaurant, of the kind that would have made Tony Soprano happy. Generous plates of pasta, in a variety of shapes and sizes, come drenched in really good sauces.

Service was very good too. I had a yen for spaghetti but, on the menu, it only came with bolognese sauce. The sauce alla Genovese that I fancied - a yummy combo of roasted peppers, grilled aubergines (eggplant), courgettes (zuccini) in pesto and tomato sauce -- was served with Fusilli. No problem, the accommodating host saw to it that my spaghetti arrived alla Genovese.

Sadly, the dessert let Gino's down. A perfectly decent tiramisu was destroyed by being buried in gassy tasting whipped cream from a spray can.

The wine list was limited and the more interesting wines relatively expensive - £31 for a relatively ordinary Barolo, for example. And with only the house red, white and ros? available by the glass, not much for the single traveler or light drinker.

Don`t understand some people, this place was amazing loved everthing about it. All 10 of us will be back.

Group of 4 decided to drop in as the whole place was full & thought must be decent if full. Luckily a group had just left so we got a table. Waitress took our drinks order, got it wrong, then took our food order, starters came out, 3 wings & a bruschetta ordered, 3 wings arrived but no brushetta instead the waitress decided to put a focacia(spell) in the middle of the table. Nobody actually knew what it was or why it was in the middle of our table & not in front of the person who ordered the Bruschetta. We advised the waitress we never received bruschetta to be told you ordered focacia not bruschetta??? Our mains then arrived, again 1 order completely wong. Returned this dish to the kitchen as there was olives embedded into one of the pizzas, instead of a new pizza being made the chef just plucked the olives off & put extra cheese on to cover up where the olives where removed. Ordered more drinks, again the order was wrong. Had enough & left. 1 positive, the manager did apologise for the night & cut our bill from £86 to £49. The chef & waitresses could do with a good course not only in customer service & cooking but also in manners. Chef was less than impressed when I advised him directly that his food was terrible, dry, bland & all in all a disaster. AVOID AVOID AVOID. 

Me and my partner went before the lion king at the theatre, and it looked a nice place and the pre-theatre/concert menu sold it for us. 

Waiter (I think the owner) sat us down and came across as quite rude to start with, then when we ordered, he asked how I'd like my steak then said 'dead or alive' don't get me wrong I can take a joke but it was not said in that manner at all.. We then got our prawn cocktails within 10 minutes of being there and they were like mush. Awful starter, so we said to the waiter 'they were a bit soggy' no apology whatsoever... Then we got our mains about 5 minutes after we had our starters, mine steak came okay, partners order was wrong, so we had to then wait another 5 minutes for the correct pizza to come. Meanwhile they asked to warm mine up or 'keep it warm' for me, it then arrived and my steak was cold, and the pizza that was made was all doughy and under cooked. It was all just a big rush. They just care about the money. They don't care about there customers. No apologies were offered after we expressed disatisfaction. Just took our money and laughed. Definitely one of the worst restaurants I have been in.... Luckily we had a good show to look forward to!.... I would highly recommend not to go to Giorgino's. Funny thing is he really thought his restaurant was amazing... And in fact it is far from it!

My wife and I booked a table at the Per Bacco Restaurant in Gent. We are fond of Italian food so we thought that we'd give it a try. The starter Squid and the risotto were good, but the main course spatola was inedible. The fish was far from fresh, and totally pulped when touched and it was zealously over salted. 

The tall waiter was professional and helpful but the small grumpy waiter who spent most of his time behind the bar trying to look busy did not even ask if the meal was ok as he removed the almost untouched dishes from our table. In addition to that no offer of reduction in price was offered and it took more than 2 hours from our arrival in the restaurant untill the disasterour main course arrived.

This was a total waste of an evening and I guess we will not be returning to that place to eat even for free.

i go often to eat at perbacco and is always good... The atmosphere is the restaurant is nice and friendly. We have eaten the best risotto in our life; risotto with mushrooms and white truffel. My friends get fresh ravioli and were really happy..the wine menu is change and now you can find oa lot of natural wine from all italy..i suggest to everybody to go and have a lunch or dinner!!

I've been living in copenhagen for work reason, I'm going really often to several restaurant in copenhagen but this is the worst one. The food was really bad, i went there with my colleague she had a burned pizza and it tasted really bad. 
I had a pasta with chicken, it tasted only cream and i left all the chicken 'cause it has a boiled taste.
The guy who brought the food was making pizza before in front of us and he had DIRTY kitchen clothes on and tried to step into a personal conversation with my female colleague. 
INACCEPTABLE.

I will never go to this place again.

Looking for a nice but affordable dining experience we walked up Falkoner Allee in search of restaurant. We wanted Italian, cozy, with good food and wine that would not be too expensive. This turned out to be perfect. My son had gnocchi, my wife a green salad. We added to that bruschetta and a wood fire cooked pizza with prosciutto and mushrooms. We had a bottle of the house red, a Montepulciano d'Abruzzo. Service was fast and friendly. Food was delicious and plentiful. We even took a bit of the pizza home with us. The bill came to around 500 krone, very reasonable in our experience.

My family and I have made multiple attempts to try to like this place, but there is one very negative consistent theme that I've finally accepted is the standrd M.O. at deLorenzo's. With this, we will never go back, and my close friends/colleagues are all in agreement. Their Customer Service is HORRIFIC. It's really a shame, because their food is pretty good, but the way that they make their customers feel unwelcomed completely overshadows any possibility of a good overall experience. I strongly suggest you find somewhere else to go if you are looking for a nice relaxing dinner.

Here's what you should expect if you Do decide to go here despite my warning:

1) Make a reservation - Out of the five times we've been here, we came in without a reservation once and we were made to feel completely un-worthy of a meal there. That said, it doesn't much matter....
2) When you are seated and your server greets you, just after giving you your drinks, you will be told that the table you are sitting at has a reservation at a later point that night....and I mean Later. In fact, last night, we were warned of a reservation an hour and 45 minutes later than ours. Simple observation of myself, my wife, and our two young children would make any reasonable person make an assumption that we weren't coming to this place for a 3 hour dinner.
So the message they are sending is..."Hi, thanks for coming, but we really don't value your patronage nearly as much as our next guests. So, please hurry up, eat, and get out." Talk about being made to feel unwelcomed. 
3) If you've looked at the menu prior to arriving, you will probably be disappointed if you've got your mind set on trying a specific meal. Most of the time, they are out of stock on nearly half the ingredients used for their meals.
4) Don't ask for modifications to any meals. The facial expressions and body language of the servers when you ask for a change will lead you to believe that someone in the kitchen needs to lose their life to make that change occur.

The net result of our final bad experience last night is that 1) we won't be going back there again (nor will our friends), 2) we all passed on appetizers and dessert because we felt rushed, and 3) for the First time in as long as I can remember, I tipped less than 20% on my bill. Basically a Lose-Lose for all concerned at this restaurant. 

We met family there on the Thursday after Christmas for an early dinner. This is a regular place for some of those that were there, and now I know why!

Food was excellent and portions were huge - I could not pass up the gnocchi, many had the lasagna! The owner came out several times to see how we were doing, and by the time we left, people were waiting to be seated. The waitress caught my name, and called me by that the rest of the night! And the bread was so good, I took what was left on the table home. 

Can't wait to go back!

The greatest compliment I can pay this wonderful little restaurant in Forks Township is that the three entrees I've had there remind me of my Italian grandmother's cooking. The lasagna is incredible, for example, and the Sunday Gravy entree reminds me of many happy Sunday meals with my own family long ago. The only reason I'm not rating deLorenzo's 5 stars is the noise level, which is brutally high on busy evenings. Go early or after the crowds ease up and you will love it. Nice people, too, who absolutely work their butts off to ensure guests have s great experience.

I look forward to their food everytime. I cannot count the number of times I have been here. It's a cozy atmosphere, not anything like a chain restaurant. every item available to order is mouth-watering & delicious! my favorites include the bruschetta, bolognese sauce & the lemon cello dessert. try it!!

Went here on a Sunday. The service was very friendly and an older woman who I am assuming was the owner stopped by the table to see if everything was good. The food is average. The menu has the usual fare you would find on an old style Italian neighborhood restaurant. There are no specials and the portions are large. We ordered The manicotti, pene in garlic and olive oil and home made ravioli off the kids menu. The bolognese sauce was decent but the garlic and olive oil was heavy. We also had salads with our meals which were not very fresh. The place is nicely decorated and they have a nice wine selection a cute bar and good martini menu. The entr?es range from15 to 29 dollars. With all the other selections in Easton I don't think I will be giving this one a second chance.

The Best Pizza in the City

Ok, so I stumbled across here on one of those fuzzy semi drunk evenings when hunger dictated choice. Stumbling through Marchmont with a hankering for Pizza, this was one of the last places before home, and I couldn't be bothered waiting for home delivery. I loved this pizza so much that I go back time and time again.

So that was well over a year ago, and I have been many times since, and they have crossed the road to larger premises. One of the benefits of this place is it is on my way home and I can call them from work and collect it as I drive past 20 minutes later, a very convenient situation. This is, however, only a tertiary benefit to the quality and value of their food.

They have a large menu which includes Pasta and Pizzas and Entrees, I always go for Pizza as I figure I can always make good Pasta at home. Unsurprisingly everything is fresh, Pizza spun in front of your face, and a huge display fridge where you can pick your toppings, at the moment I like to go for spicy chicken , artichokes, sundried tomato and spinach, its the bomb! Last night I got a 16" wiht the above toppings for £12 - yes ONLY £12 - and it was more than enough for 2. Now I have been a fan of La Favorita for some time, but they just can't compete with this value for money, and I honestly belive the Pizza is better here.

Service is very pleasant, they are efficient and  genuine, I don't know if the main guy remembers me or if he just greets everyone with the same Mediterranean love, regardless, it makes me smile every time.

They have a good range of cooking supplies also, including large quantities of preserved and dried goods, and Olive Oil - let's not forget the freezer full of ice cream (Vermont's finest!)

Great food and always a friendly welcome. I remember when this place first appeared and I eyed it with suspicion for whatever reason then one evening we fancied trying somewhere new, so in we went and I havent looked back. If you want amazing Italian food in Marchmont this is where to come.

The pizzas are great, but I havent managed to get past the Vegetarian. My friends have ordered all sorts and everytime they come away with a big smile saying its the best pizza they have had in ages. 

We decided to eat in one night the missus opted for Melanzana (Aubergine, basil, tomato sauce & Parmesan cheese)  followed by Spaghetti Napolitana this was very well recieved. I went for Coutci Marinara (Mussels cooked with chilli & tomato sauce), garlic bread and a giant Vegetarian pizza. Yep eyes bigger than my belly. The pizza was put in a take away box for breakfast.

Eat in or takeaway both are excellent. Bear in mind this is a pizza shop with seating if you are planning on sitting in. If you are expecting La favourita style seating and decor this probably isnt the place, but for what it is it is very well turned out.

My first choice for italien food in the local area.

Let's just say I can pretty much walk in and ask for my regular when I go to Delicious Italian. I don't. Because I get real embarrassed at how often I end up resorting to eating from this mouth-watering takeaway. 

At first I obsessed vigorously over the tagliatelle salmone. When I stopped eating meat, it was the gnocchi quattro formaggio's turn. Then it was the rigatoni normali (tomato sauce, ricotta and roasted aubergine) and then a rigatoni with sun-dried tomatoes and artichokes. Now it's the pizza. Every single time I go there I order the same thing: artichoke with red onion and sweet corn. I swear they recognise my voice on the phone now. My dignity is way gone. Oh well. I'd rather continue eating their amazing food than keep my dignity. I'm certain I never had much to begin with. 

So, I've gone through the vegetarian options, but never you worry: there's plenty of meat to bite into. But what really makes my heart flutter about this place is that their proportion of pasta to sauce is spot on, i.e. there's LOADS of sauce to mop up with their garlic bread (which is free with every pasta dish), though, to be frank, their garlic bread is just not buttery or garlicky enough for me. 

Strangely, I find, there's also a couple of tables so that you can actually sit in. I'd say stick to taking food out, though. It's not particularly romantic and doesn't really have an atmosphere at all. I walked in once and this couple were eating their own separate pizzas while people walked in and out. They weren't even talking to each other. It seemed really painfully awkward. 

Delicious (as we lazy locals call it) used to be cheaper than it is now, but it's still kinda reasonable because you can easily stuff yourself and keep some extra for the next day. Especially when it comes to the gnocchi, which is really really filling. And SO cheesy!

I'm still coming to terms with how cheap the Marchmont restaurants are! Ofcourse such a statement is always made comparatively, and it's unfathomable that one could have a (relatively fancy) meal out in New Town for less than a tenner. It'd be easier to understand if Marchmont was run down, and rats came as a side dish to the food, but this is thankfully not the case! Marchmont is lovelyyyyyy. 

So this Italian restaurant, yeah, is well good. They serve the typical menu of starters, pizzas, pasta, fish, meat and chicken dishes. I especially like that the pizzas come in two sizes (and more importantly two prices!) depending on the belly satisfaction and pocket ofcourse.

Went there last night for friends birthday meal as had a booking at Los Argentinos (steak place around the corner from it) but when we turned up they had overbooked so we were left high and dry despite having booked the table well in advance. Anyway on to Sambucca...We had two courses, 2 bottles of wine and liquer coffee. Before starters we had the most delicious bread with olive oil and balsamic. 3 of us had half portions of pasta as a starter and 4th had garlic mushrooms. All dishes were ample and delicious. As we had all had out hearts set on a steak so we opted for steaks here done in mustard, brandy and cream - absolutely delicious. We had liquer coffees and then the owner brought us complimentary zambuccas which was appreciated.

Service was excellent and will certainly return. A night that could have turned out to be a disaster was saved by Sambucca, The meal was for a special birthday.

Sambuca offers a traditional variety of dishes and it does it well: the owner is keen to reproduce a true Italian food cuisine, combining food quality standard and fair final bills. He is originally from Lazio, near Rome, so some dishes may be adjusted to the taste of the region, but they aren't britishised at all. I was particularly fascinated by the assortment of wines: not too many, yet carefully selected and affordable in terms of prices. My partner had a mushroom pizza, which was excellent, and I went for some sweet Marsala Scloppine, which again were incredible. Why do italians live longer? These two dishes perhaps are part of the answer

Interesting that this is being called 'authentic'! I took some Italian friends and they said food was way off the mark in terms of authenticity! In fact we discovered that both owner and chef and not Italian!

Visited on a relatively quiet Thursday night and greeted cheerfully, orders taken quickly and did not have to wait long on the starters-good thing too as we were very hungry!
The food is lovely-good flavours and portions are huge possibly too big as we struggled to finish both courses and felt a bit bad leaving some. Need to remember to order half portions next time.
This is a lovely little restaurant which I use regularly and have never been let down. A must if you are in the area

my wife my son his girlfriend and myself decided at about 9pm on a cold october night to take a chance on something nice to eat at sambuca, we turned up without booking and were made very welcome by the proprietor/chef and the waitress, as we sat down the remnants of a family birthday were just leaving it looked like they enjoyed a great time, we took our seats and the staff took our coats etc, we ordered some drinks which were quickly delivered to our table while we perused the very desireable looking menu, i went for the old foolproof favourite, sirloin steak, which was cooked perfectly to the way i like it, my wife had the spag bol which she assured us was full of flavour and meaty texture, my son and his lady friend were considering a pasta dish, which did not appear on the menu, the chef overheard their conversation and said he would make anything they wanted, very much above and behond the normal call of duty, after the main event i was the only one wanting a sweet and i was not dissapointed with the huge knicker bocker glory that was brought to our table, the look on the others faces was priceless as i demolished this mountain of sheer brilliance, we all finished off with lovely fresh brewed coffee, when i got the bill i was very surprised at how reasonable it was especially for such good cooked to order food, we were also given a card giving us 10% off our next visit, this was our first visit but it wont be our last, you really must give it a try as it puts the big boys bar roma bar italia and the like of darios into perspective, it is very friendly and warm without being intrusive

Lovely local restaurant. Recommended by friends but we have only just got round to going ourselves....wish we gone sooner!. Beautiful house style mussels and Parma ham with melon. Special for the evening fresh bream and the scampi principe - gorgeous! Decent bottle and a half of house red and a dessert I wouldn't share! Lovely lovely! We will definitely be back!

As we walked into this restaurant, we were met by the chef who sat at a table reading the paper. We didn't have a reservation, but it was early so we had no problem getting a table. The food was average. We had a salmon pasta dish and potato gnocchi in a tomato cream sauce. There was nothing wrong with these dishes, but they weren't memorable either.
The wait staff was not very friendly and made us feel like they were doing us a favor by waiting on us. I think I must have thrown off the waitress at the beginning of our meal when I asked for hot tea and a glass of ice to make my own ice tea. 
The restaurant is small but nicely decorated, with tables close together to accomodate more diners. I wouldn't go out of my way to go here again.
Went here for my sisters birthday. Terrible from the start. Ordered a shandy to be given a pint of lager and a bottle of lemondae. Gin and tonic to be given a lime and soda. Asked for main course not to have chillis in it and it was full of chillis. The tuna pasta was so fishy that we could not eat it. Portion sizes are very small. Service poor drinks had not arrived before starters.Went here for my sisters birthday. Terrible from the start. Ordered a shandy to be given a pint of lager and a bottle of lemondae. Gin and tonic to be given a lime and soda. Asked for main course not to have chillis in it and it was full of chillis. The tuna pasta was so fishy that we could not eat it. Portion sizes are very small. Service poor drinks had not arrived before starters. 
Went here for my sisters birthday. Terrible from the start. Ordered a shandy to be given a pint of lager and a bottle of lemondae. Gin and tonic to be given a lime and soda. Asked for main course not to have chillis in it and it was full of chillis. The tuna pasta was so fishy that we could not eat it. Portion sizes are very small. Service poor drinks had not arrived before starters.

What a disappointment. Will not be going back. 
we sat at the area where the starters and puddings were prepared - it was really interesting and made for a very different eating experience! the food was really good!! 
We were a bit surprised that we could afford to eat here! Initially my husband was worried we were going to get a huge bill and leave hungry - no such worries. The portions were large and it was refreshing to go to an Italian that didn't serve pizzas. Will definitely try other restaurants in the Jamie Oliver family now that we have discovered we don't need to take out a mortgage to eat there! 
We visited as a family event. There was a 2 year old with us whom we order the sliders for. Her meal was served as though it was for an adult - crispy bacon full topping and a skewer through the burger!! which was all very very hot and took ages to cool down. The side salad was served diced very finely and in a kilner style tub - not easy for little hands to eat with and inevitably went everywhere! When the 'juice' finally arrived at the end of her meal, it was served in a wine carafe! with a glass tumbler and straw! not very toddler friendly, It was more aimed at older children which is a shame as the adult portions come is smaller sizes which older children could eat anyhow!. My brother order a Jamie's Burger and it was so charred that he couldnt taste the meat. The roll was soggy and fell apart and the flavour terrible.
The service was very slow albeit friendly.
Its a real shame as we were really looking forward to trying it.

This was booked as a Christmas treat for the family. My wife needs to be wheat free so we rang and were assured that this was not a problem. We itemised this on the booking form. We paid £10 per head deposit.
On arrival we made ourselves known and pointed out that my wife was wheat free. All seemed well, the children obviously couldn't have the prosecco and were offered alcohol free cocktails instead.
The platter was very good but when we asked which items my wife could eat, this seemed to come as surprise to the waitress. The main courses were OK, as was the dessert. The choice for my wife was disappointing to say the least. Sorbet or stewed fruits. Is it beyond the wit of Jamie to realise that many people suffer from gluten /wheat allergies? He could make an effort. 
It took 3 hours (!!!!) to get through a set menu.
We were originally charged for the childrens drinks.
The £40 deposit wasn't taken off the bill.
My wife was ill for weeks afterwards.
I called the restaurant asking about suitability for wheat free clients I was told that the fish was dusted in flour "but could be wheat free". Not what we were told at the time.
I was promsed a call from the manager..........I'm still waiting. We were really looking forward to our night out at Jamie's but left disappointed. The food was good but the service was not up to scratch. We all got the impresion that the waiter was paid by comission and that he lost interest in us when he realised that we weren't going to spend a fortune. I am sure that the same meal could have been bought at half the price at a little local Italian. The assembly rooms is an impressive location for a restaurant, we loved the central operations centre, it creates a real buzz. Generally the food was well presented and tasty, but I think the sharing boards are over priced for the quantity of food to be shared. For my main I have the deep fried seafood platter, interesting idea, great looking plate of food, fun to pick through, but it didn't quite deliver the flavour I was expecting. The restaurant was busy, but there were plenty of staff on duty, so no excuse for the slow service. Sitting near the central area, we could see food waiting quite some time to be taken to tables.We wanted to visit Jamie's Italian based on his fun and creative cooking style featured on his television shows. Sadly his restaurant falls short of expectations. Our starter was a rather ordinary dish of cold cuts and cheese. My slow braised pork tagliatelle main was boring. My wife' wild mushroom and cheese pillows was tasty and above average. Please avoid the Rosso red wine as it is barely drinkable - maybe I had a bad glass?
Our server was rather indifferent and hard to locate at times.
The atmosphere is light and family style which is perfect for a casual meal.
All in all Jamie's Italian is worth visiting, but altogether ordinary. Just keep your expectations low. We were looking forward to going as we had looked at the menu online before we went and thought it sounded amazing. Initially we were shown to a poor table in the way of all the waiters coming and going form the kitchen. Then the starers came and they were okay, but the olives possibly were not the best ever as reported. Then the mains came and the seafood pasta was not cooked/or the shelfish was dead! they had served it with closed shelfish, this is a school boy error and very disappointing. The waitress was excellent and took both meal away and we were given fresh and 'cooked' food second time round. The only good thing was that we were not charged for our mains. Must try harder! I went there with my brother. Both of us love food and like to try good famous restaurants from time to time. The name capture our eye, but not our mouth. It is obvious that Mr. Oliver owns the franchise, but is not in the kitchen. 
Went for our valentines meal. Had to wait 10 mins before a menu was even
Given to us. We were disappointed as we had chosen the restaurant for the lamb
Which we had seen on a valentines menu on their website.
We were told they didn't have any. The meal was very rushed with a very out of tune cheesy singer
Singing in the background.
The main meal was nice but starter and dessert was not pleasant. Cold soggy apple pie :(
Not a good experience, went here as a group of 5. Had to change the wine we drank after two bottles as they had ran out (this happened twice) would be good if they indicated they had little stock. Steak ordered for main course, came later than the other meals and was blue rather than medium. Waiter agreed and went to get a fresh one. The original steak returned reheated with the original potato dish steaming from microwave. They did not agree a new one should have been booked as this would have taken 10 minutes!!
An impromptu dinner with a group of female friends - the food though nothing to write home about was adequate but unfortunately the service let the team down on the night. A little too pushy with the wine list, being asked to move our own table (twice) to make room for diners at the next table who hadn't even arrived and an evening of inappropriate innuendos/physical contact from the male waiting staff was just plain ridiculous. Won't be going back in a hurry.
All dishes were cooked and seasoned to perfection. We particularly loved the home made Pappardelle. The portions were generous, which meant that unfortunately we couldn't fit in any desserts!
A real treat, we will definitely visit again.
Special features: romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, group bookings
We really enjoyed our lunch on Sunday - the restaurant was buzzing and it was very welcoming. It was also very relaxed with our 3 children and the staff were very attentive to them. We are going back to celebrate my mother-in-law's birthday next month and there'll be 18 of us!
Had an awesome meal at Punto. Greeted by super friendly staff. There were olives and bread to share. The plate sizes were decent portions and very delicious.
For starters we had the calamari fritti e zucchini to share and it was fresh and non greasy. Crisp on the outside and not chewy at all.
I had the suprema di pollo parmigiana. I gave away a slice each to my dining companions and there was still plenty for me. Absolutely delicious!
My husband had the penne de pollo and again is was a generous portion, cooked al dente and piping hot.
Had a fabulous time. The staff were amazing; prompt, attentive and friendly!
Went to Punto for dinner on a Friday. Service was excellent. Food was fresh but lacked a 
Lovely to have a table with a crisp white table cloth and to be served by waiters wearing clean shirts AND a tie - lovely meal and a pleasant peaceful evening
Special features: special occasions, Sunday lunch
Excellent service. Goats cheese starter was lovely. Very good portion size. Great place all round
Special features: fit for foodies, special occasions, group bookings, good vegetarian options, Sunday lunch
Ate at Punto's one Saturday evening. The place was quite busy but service was attentive. A good selection on the menu, with added specials. Food was nicely presented and good portions. Not the cheapest, but quality and ambience is good and feels like a genuine family-run restaurant.
loved the food we had for lunch today. Very good service and the decor is lovely.We ate 3 courses and enjoyed every mouthful and the wine was good too. That is our 3rd viisit to 
In response to the latest negative reviews about my restaurant,I am sorry if your meal experience was not up to our usually high standard.I would like to invite both "Marion Bell" and "Stephen" to come back and see me personally and I will recompense you with a free bottle of wine.I wish you had made your comments to me on the night because feedback is so important to us.I can assure all my customers that the quality of food is infact improving all the time and the thousands of customers we serve never go away unhappy.I personally approach my customers all the time and make sure they are happy when they leave.
Once again,thank you for your comments and I hope you come back to see us soon 
Fabulous restaurant, beautiful decor & great food! The owners have done an amazing job - brilliant to have a really superb restaurant in the area, keep up the good work. 
I was at this restaurant last Saturday 10th September the food was excellent ,service can't fault it overall just what Bonnyrigg has needed for a long time,. good luck to Luigi for along and prosperous future in this business. Recently I enjoyed a delicious meal when I visited Gigi's Italian restaurant with my family for a special meal. We were very impressed with the restaurant. As soon as we walked in the door we were greeted by very friendly and welcoming staff. The decor and furnishings in the restaurant are beautiful and the whole place oozes class. The food was absolutely EXCELLENT! We all found the food to be delicious! Between us we ordered different dishes from pasta to meat and all were so flavoursome. I highly recommend the haggis ravioli - I have never tasted pasta like this before it is a must! We shared a variety of different desserts between us-all fantastic! I would very much recommend Gigi's as it has a great atmosphere, lovely staff and amazing food! I will definitely go back! 
I have dined at Gigi's in Bonnyrigg with friends five times and have enjoyed the excellent food and friendly service of this family run business.We were made to feel welcome and the owners remembered my name.The restaurant was buzzing and the atmosphere was fun so we stayed longer for cocktails and liqueors.I have had a different dish each time i have dined at Gigis and the quality of the food was amazing.I have read some of the unfair reviews that have been against Gigi's and am sure that these people dined elsewhere and not where we have been dining (Lothian street) ...i dont usually take the time to post reviews but i was angered at one of my friends telling me about a negative review against this quality restaurant ! Its the same old story,,,Bad news is good news and good news is no news at all ! If there is a problem with a meal experience in a restaurant then mention it there and then...and give them the chance to make good... this is what a normal person would do.... Bonnyrigg should thank their lucky stars that there are brave people risking to open a business and creating jobs when others are closing. Looking forward to our next meal at Gigi's. Robert (Loanhead) 
Just been for lunch, food was fantastic, service exceptional, really nice decor. Worth every penny, thank you all very much. 
Second time at Gigis. Went with the family - 2 adults and 2 children. The adults used the Groupon voucher. I had the antipasto to start and it was a large portion and excellent quality. Followed up with the haggis ravioli, which was excellent, if not on the small portion size. My wife had prawns which were good. She had a pasta dish which was good and better portion than my main. Kids had pasta bolognaise from the kids menu which they both finished. Finished with Tiramisu, which was light and tasty. 
Overall enjoyed the food and didnt feel at all rushed. Will definitely be back.
Staff were attentive and helpful. 
I went out to Gigi,s with my husband on an unplanned night out. We were well impressed with the beautiful decor , the friendly helpful staff, the good choice from the menu. The food was excellent. Would recommend this Restaurant to our family and friends. 
I had my first experience at GiGi's on Saturday 22nd Oct'11 - excellent. We booked an early table not realising that they catered a late lunch and pre-theatre service. We decided to go with the a la Carte and were definitely not disappointed. My husband had the Rigatone - he thoroughly enjoyed his pasta - al dente and very tasty. I had the Fillet Rossini - may cost a bit bit more but to die for - absolutely superb - cooked to perfection. We followed our main courses with a dessert and liquer coffee both excellent. The restaurant was very quiet when we first went in but soon filled up - with several large parties - that said one of the waiters did tell us that it would get busy later on. The service was excellent also - attentive without being over intrusive - the staff were pleasant and happy to help. I would recommend this restaurant to friends, family and colleagues. It is not over priced and the quality of the food and service is high end. Their location is a bit out of the way, however, they would not be out of place in a city centre location - entirely excellent dining experience so much so we have made our next booking already. 
We have been to Giggis 3 or 4 times now and never been dissapointed,on the last occasion we had 34 guests for a Birthday party, everyone texted myself the following day to say what an excellent night they had, the food and service was first class, nothing was a problem to the staff, thanks for opening in Bonnyrigg 
Went today and the food is excellent, however the service is somewhat slow - perhaps another pair of hands cooking/serving would help. If you are prepared to wait, the food is definitely worth it and at a very reasonable price. 
Another amazing night spent in GiGi's. From the heart felt welcoming to the suberb service and amazing food.And steaks to die for. 
I visited Gigi's for yet another visit last Thursday 5th January with my daughter and my husband for his first visit. My daughter and friends have been before but we wanted to introduce my husband to this magnificent restaurant. To say my husband was impressed was an understatement, he enjoyed everything and especially the friendly staff and atmosphere. We live abroad in Abu Dhabi where indeed there are nice restaurants but Gigi's have got everything right. We will certainly be back and so will my husband - you should be proud - he can be a bit of a food critic!! Get potatoes on as an option, hee hee. Well done Gigi's, it's a joy to eat in your restaurant Luigi & Marissa, well done. 
I have just been to a works christmas lunch this afternoon,this was my first time here and thought that it was great!. Good food, good service and a really good atmosphere. Will definately come back again. 
i have used Gigis on about 5 occasions since it openened-and have nothing negative to say about this lovely restaurant. My husband and i have been three times with our children and I have been twice with friends. The choice of meals available was pleasantly surprising and the quality of meals each time has been fantastic. The local area has been crying out for a restaurant like this. In addition to my visits, the stafff and restaurant have been very supportive of the local community - recently allowing the local primary 7 children to use the restaurant for their leaving meal. I look forward to many more lovely evenings at Gigis....thank you 
Went to GiGi's this afternoon with my sister and 2 year old daughter we had a fab time food was amazing and staff couldn't have done enough to help will defo be back!! 

7 of us went for a meal yesterday evening (Sat 11th). For two of us it was our first visit. There was a very warm welcome, service and food was excellent. 
The only issue we had was with the bill! We were staggered with the prices charged for drinks. Unfortunately there was no draught beer, only bottled which was expensive. (Any chance of draught beear in the future?)
We will certainly return to GiGis for any special occasion as the food and service was superb. Inbetween times we will probably try a lunch as we hear they are also excellent. 
Discover the very best Italian restaurants in London with Square Meal’s handpicked guide to the top Italian restaurants in London. Italian cuisine is one of the most popular cuisine types in the world and can either be brilliantly rustic, beautifully refined or simply elegant. With a wealth of fantastic ingredients, it is only natural that Italian food is so flavourful and full of colour and each region of Italy brings something special to the table. From simple pizza and pasta to more complex Italian dishes, there is something for everyone to enjoy with Italian food.
London has an abundance of great Italian restaurants to offer, from simple pizza restaurants to elegant Italian fine dining restaurants and it is often hard to choose. To help, Square Meal has compiled this handy guide to the best Italian restaurants in London, aiming to make your selection an easier one and to ensure that you are guaranteed one of the best Italian dining experiences in London.
We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.
Thursday night and trade was brisk.
It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming. We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.
We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks – a glass of white wine and a beer for me.
We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.
Decisions, decisions ...
For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio – mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.
For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo – grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.
Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.
Tina came to take our orders.
As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening’s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.
Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?
What is not to love here?! Its my favorite Italian restaurant in Canterbury and I love it! The food is so yummy and fresh. Local produce used and all really authentic. There is a large variety of food and I have pretty much eaten most of the dishes. I take anyone who comes to visit me there as I love 
We lunch every week somewhere in Canterbury but come here every fortnight and look forward to the occasion each time. We always have an excellent meal with friendly and attentive service. Why do we bother going anywhere else? Last week the lamb was perfect and Massimo's special pasta with monkfish and clams was unusual and extremely tasty. What a wonderful 
If you like big chain italian restaurants, this is not the place for you. If you like microwaved restaurant food, this is not the place for you. But if you like top-class home cooked italian food, this is the very best not just in Canterbury, not just in the UK, but in the whole Universe - and I should know,
So many people rave about Pinnochios but when we went for my brother's birthday I didn't really see that it was that fantastic. The starter of scallops was okay but far too salty and the pizza I had was pretty average (I've had better at Pizza Express etc). On a positive note, the staff were very attentive and nice and... More  
We really enjoyed our meal here - very busy & very Italian! - my husband said it was the best L'Amatriciana he'd eaten,,,Brushetta & Caprese salad were very tasty. and our 11 year old daughter loved the Bolognese. As someone else said in their review - leave room for the tiramasu!!! 
this would have been the second time my husband and i visited this restaurant after we had a really lovely meal there earlier in the year. the place had hardly any customers and we were refused a table we had chosen (which seated 4) and we were shown to a small rickety table in the corridor, were the waiters were... More  
Think it was very pricey £6 for two prawns, two slices of Parma ham, a little bit of rocket lettuce and a few shavings of cheese. 
We were a party of four with a Saturday booking for 7.15pm. On arrival the restaurant was very busy with a queue outside & although a table wasn't obviously reserved for us one was found quite quickly. Unfortunately our first course took nearly an hour and a half to arrive - we had arrived from the theatre so were in no hurry - plus one starter was missing. The food was pretty average on the whole and the service was inattentive at best. The head waiter did apologise at the end of our meal for the delays and gave us a lemon liqueur each on the house. Price was around £85 for four starters and mains plus a bottle of house wine and a couple of beers - not too bad for the West End. Overall okay but not recommended for more than a bite to eat.
but oh boy was service slow!, over 1 hour to take our order, still it was NY's eve and i would go back
Brilliant food and well priced
Having read other reviews about slow service we made a point of letting them know when we booked for 9 people on a Saturday that we needed to be out by 6.50pm. Initially we reserved for 5.30 but arrived early at 5.15 which they appreciated. It was a bit of a struggle and we had to chase things a couple of times including getting menu's in the first place, but they managed to serve us 2 nice courses and get us away just before 7pm. Food was good but the place was packed and it appeared there were too few staff to manage the demand. We would go back but only when time wasn't an important factor.
Italian restaurants are a dime a dozen and most are not that good. I wanted a place close to the theater and I used TripAdvisor to select Melanie. I knew the area well and in fact ate in another Italian restaurant real close by (not recommended). We order the Pasta & Fagioli which was very good as was the deep fried breaded mozzarella cheese topped with tomato sauce. Both excellent value for the money and both very tasty. My wife order the spaghetti alle vongole (clams in garlic and white wine) which she said was excellent. My son and I had the spaghetti alia bolognese. The sauce was very good but sadly the pasta was over cooked. Next time I would order a pasta that is less likely to be ruined. Only complaint was time it took to pay.
We had an enjoyable family meal in this Italian. Food was good and it made a nice change to the standard Italian chains that are on every high street.
I took my daughter and granddaughters to lunch here before a matinee. It was very well situated for the theatre and the
meal we had was satisfactory but not outstanding.
Ate here post-Christmas shopping and the food was lovely and the staff were lovely, but unfortunately service was terribly, terribly slow. Granted, the restaurant was full, but they did have more than enough waiters around. Went in for a quick dinner and didn't come out until 3 hours later!
Basic decor but very friendly and attentive service pre theatre for very good Italian food. Canneloni was piping hot and very tasty. Ideal for a quick value supper pre-theatre
very disappointing meal- table not ready for 20 mins after we arrived, service far far too slow- main course served after 1 hr 25 mins- We rushed it and left-
Will not be returning.
really good value food but had to wait a while for it. would eat again but not for a special occasion.
A group booking for myself and six other colleagues. The menu is extensive with a great selection of choices for a larger party - especially when we have very varied tastes. The food was very good and no-one had any complaints. The restaurant itself has a pleasant atmosphere, service could have been slightly swifter, particularly for initial drinks but all-in-all a pleasant meal.
Average food , which I don't believe is run by Italians. The waiter could not speak Italian. Nice location in centre of Soho
Not a good advert for Italian food all they seem to want to do is get you in and get you out all very much a rush. Food was very standard not special
Excellent service and friendly staff who are attentive and prompt. Good value for money-2 people can eat a 3 course meal for under £45 (including steak)- a rarity in Soho! I have repeated my visit 3 times so far and never disappointed- i will continue to use this restaraunt
Nine of us ate here before a West End show at the weekend and we couldn't have picked a better spot. The staff were incredibly friendly and helpful, the food was good and it was excellent value for money. I will definitely be going back.
This restaurant is a throw back to the bad old days.
The service is surly and ridiculously slow. The restaurant is an embarrassing tatty cliche. The staff are stern, joyless and inefficient. The food is just under adequate and massively over priced.
Avoid. Avoid. Avoid.
Melanie Restaurant was very good - as usual, excellent service and good food.
I shall definitely return for another leisurely and enjoyable lunch time
First time I've written a review but I felt it's necessary for this restaurant. I booked a table for 9 for my birthday, the aim was to find a restaurant that provided good value but wasn't the stereotypical chain restaurant such as Zizzis/Pizza Express.
We arrived on time and we had a long table reserved, the service was always prompt both for drinks when we arrived and for ordering and serving our courses.
It's has a very warm and friendly atmosphere. Would definitely recommend for those looking for an enjoyable evening at very good value.
great food, quick service and great ambience, staff very attentive and friendly
We ate from the pre-theatre menu £12.90 including a glass of wine. The choice was very limited but the portions were substantial. We enjoyed our meals and then shared a dessert. Service was a bit slow but they were very busy. Football was being shown on a large screen the other side of the restaurant but there was no sound so it did not disturb us.
Lovely restaurant, the food was very tasty and full of flavour. The service is laid back and so you need to make a bit of time for the dining experience but the waiters are very friendly and even gave us free Tiramasu with a candle in it for my husband's birthday, while singing to him! The restaurant was worth every penny! Would definitely recommend it and will be back!
Melanie's Italian Restaurant, London is traditional with family values. The restaurant was clean and the atmosphere friendly and warm. A good menu and plentiful portions, the service was swift, efficient and professional and we were all very well looked after from my 80 year old father to my 16 year old daughter. The food was of a good standard and value for money. I particularly noticed the pavement was scrubbed clean in front of the restaurant unlike its neighbours!
Friendly service and good Italian in the heart of Soho. We went for a family lunch before a West End show and throughly enjoyed our meal (though some Old Compton St shop windows opposite make for interesting conversation with children).
A very disappointing meal with our niece. The food was horrible to say the least. Probably the worst Italian meal we've had in London for the last 10 years. The garish decor didn't add any value and the slow service was painful - we had to keep on looking at our watches to make sure we didn't miss the matinee show, while we were waiting ages for the bill to arrive. We could not get out of there fast enough and shall not be returning.
Melanies Italian Rstaurant in Compton Street London W1
is very conveniently situated if you are going to the Palace Theatre. The food was very good, the service was prompt and the cost was acceptable, The tables are a bit close together but as we were there at 5pm that was not a problem. Only have 1 litre bottles of water so we asked for tap water which came without fuss. Nice atmosphere, clean and pleasant.
Excellent food lots of choice, reasonably priced, good friendly service, looking forward to next visit
Melanie Italian Restaurant in Old Compton Street does good food at reasonable prices. Although I wouldnt go if you are in a hurry. We waited about 20 mins to give our order. However, we had allowed loads of time so it didnt really matter for us. The staff are nice and food good. Would probably go again - but only if we had extra time.
I wouldn't recommend this restaurant. Although the food was OK, the service was slow, we weren't told that the main courses didn't come with any side dishes and it is massively overpriced. There were only another six or so tables being used so the atmosphere was also poor.
The atmosphere is good, food pasta too salty meat not bad service soooo slow
Great restaurant, with delicious food and fantastic service. The only thing which need improvement are man on door as they can be very arrogant which is a bit disappointment when you meeting people and have to run to the door to make sure they will be let in is not professional behavior at all.
Special features: business meals, romance, special occasions, group bookings, good vegetarian options, brunch, outstanding value
Ambiance fabulous! But I have to say some of the dishes very very average! I.e. seafood appetizer £40, way over-rated and tasteless! Good wine selection! Excellent dessert platter - worth £50!
glass of champagne in basement bar could not be transferred to restaurant - tho probably more to do with bar staff protecting their service charge - pathetic and poor start
starter superb & service fantastic in Italian restaurant
but suckling pig massive disappointment - flavorless, not succulent - presentation beyond rustic, just unappetising
probably because a high spend item staff more interested in selling dish than explaining properly
good food & atmosphere tainted by avarice
Novikov (Italian restaurant) is the best restaurant there is in London right now. The service was incredible, and everyone was very helpful, welcoming and kind. The atmosphere in the restaurant really made us feel like we were in a restaurant in Italy outside in the street with trees and flowers, and the ceiling also made it look like we really were outdoors. The dish that was recommended to us was the pig, which was exquisite! We also didn't fail to notice that a children's party took place there as well, and we were delighted to see the way the children were treated by the staff, and how they had their own special table and chairs. The chocolate desert was delicious and when we saw the bar we were pleasantly surprised by the retro style.
Fantastic restaurant but you will need cash!!!
Had a great eve with friends. The only let down side was when i tried to change the size of our party beforehand. We had originally booked for 4 people at 7.30. The lady on the phone was very unhelpful requesting that we shiuld come at 7pm. When I said hat wasn't possible, She eventually obliged. Irony is that the Italian side of the restaurant was fairly quiet until after 10.30. Overall we enjoyed our eve and meal. It's also worth checking out the bar.....
A visit to this restaurant is like visiting a restaurant in Italy. The staff is running around while the restaurant manager goes around and tells them how they should work!
The food is very good but the service leaves a bit to be desired. Since there are several people who handles your table they do not really have control who's doing what. For instance, as we sat waiting for the main course we were asked if we wanted dessert.
Thanks to the good food, I can still recommend the restaurant!
Slightly disappointed as I thought the lunch menu would be available throughout the week. Although this is probably my mistake for not ringing in advance to check, I took a friend for her birthday lunch on Sunday to take advantage of the 4 courses for £24 set menu but ended up having to spend a vast amount more on just a starter to share, a pizza and a soup.
I would certainly go back for lunch again mid week as the food is lovely and great service.
Special features: business meals, romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, good vegetarian options, child friendly, pre/post theatre
This was my first time dining at the restaurant and it was good. The bar and ambience of the place is great and you can make a whole night of it. The food is good but not great and extremely expensive for what it is.
Hi, for a night out with friends, it is a great place to eat. I have heard bad reviews about the food at this place. But the few times I visited, the food was actually really good. At least, this is my experience of the Italian side.
Good food and good atmos[here. Service very good
An excellent choice for a group celebration of five people.The service was excellent and the food just delicious.We were in the Italian restaurant and will return at the earliest occasion.
Very disappointing experience. The food is below average and the service was the most disappointing of all. As an appetiser, I chose the seabass carpaccio. The fish was swimming in olive oil which completely overpowered its texture and flavour, there was no subtelty or haute cuisine feel to this dish. As a main, I chose the phaesant raviolli with the black truffle. Unfortunately the meat filling was full of bones! I was shocked and mentioned this to the waiter at the end (in the most friendly manner) as I was thinking the chef should be made aware to ensure it doesn't happen again. The waiter shrugged his shoulders and walked away without a word. I never experienced such an attitude before...
Another great dining experience. Felt we wanted to try the Italian restaurant after having the most amazing food in the Asian, we were not sure it could be as good. It was and we will back, so if I can't get a reservation in one the other will be equally on my list. Amazing service and the food was incredible. Highly recommend and I can't wait to go back again.
Special features: special occasions
I thought the food and the ambience were great. I really enjoyed dining at this restaurant. Looking at the negative reviews, a tip for avoiding disappointments (seems to come mainly from overpricing), order food strictly from the menu where the prices are clearlly indicated! If you once tempted to go for a today's special, lovely whole turbot to share that they offer from a large plate for example, you might get a surprise on your bill, but as long as you are in control of what you are ordering, this restaurant is superb, I think. I love the idea of the open kitchen and the grill, all the fresh ingredients on display. I managed to wow my guests each time.
Really tasty and well made food, but extremely small portions for an italian restaurant. Definitely it needs improvement on this
Excellent place for dinner and cosi bar
We were a party of 6 and dined in their Italian Restaurant...
every dish served was amazing.. In fact we all agreed the steaks were the best we have ever eaten and we do all eat in the best Michelin starred restaurants in and around london...the service was good too...and live music played at our table!!!
Afterwards we had champagne downstairs in their lounge bar..great ambience...great music and atmosphere.
We will definitely be returning to try the Asian restaurant...
Special features: business meals, romance, fit for foodies, special occasions
Excellent food, but way too expensive for what it is. I would choose a proper Italian, only reason to go there is to meet some bankers
We had dinner on Saturday night, the arrival was great, the food nothing to talk about, service thanks to the sommelier who took are of our table, because waiter was never there. Wine was very warm, had to put it in ice bucket to chilled down.
Also overprice for what you get, can get better not far away at reasonable price.
Really delicious food! Definitely will impress anyone you take there.
Special features: business meals, romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, group bookings
After reading dubious reviews i was a bit apprehensive about dining here but we had a brilliant lunch with our clients - we were not hurried to our table and indulged in cocktails downstairs before sitting down to an extremely tasty meal. The staff were very helpful, no rush to finish courses and we were made to feel very welcome. Have yet to try evening dinner but will certainly recommend lunch! Quite pricey but we all thought it was worth it.
great evening with my partner, food was fantastic and abience was brilliant too. Great value for money
Good food a good atmosphere and a lively lounge bar A very good venue for a night out
The manager here was very rude. They took a pillow from her chair in the middle of her dining experience for another customer & offered no apology instead the manager came over with a 'I don't care response'. Overall the food was substandard, the service was terrible & it was all overpriced. I will not be returning again,
I ve been to Novikov with my partner to celebrate my birthday! the italian food was great even if to expensive!! i was quite shocked to hear such bad English from the staff for such a posh restaurant!! apart from that i had a good night!
had a great time.. the atmosphere is great so that adds to it all! chef made special veg stuff for me.. worth going for special occasions. its definitely a little pricey
The waitor interuped several times, only recommended most expensive wines and dropped glasses. The food was ok, but nothing special, not very good value for the money. The bar downstairs was good though a bit noisy.
good restaurant but much too noisy: not easy to talk.
Service like you have never seen in London! Exceptional
This is the first time I've eaten at this restaurant (the Italian one), and found service and food to be very poor and extremely overpriced. I booked a table for 3 people, turned up on time and was asked to wait for 20 minutes, after returning I was told there was still no table available and I'd have to wait even longer - they were 'just busy'. 2 of our 3 meals were nothing better than your standard mid priced restaurant, certainly not the prices they're charging.
If you want to spend more than average on a meal out, there are plenty of other places in London that do better food at a much better price - even in Mayfair! No idea why this place is busy - perhaps they're first time visitors like myself, don't make the same mistake!
Way too expensive for what you get, Whilst the cocktails were really good, I could have bought nicer food in my local Italian restaurant. The service was extremely slow. There were 4 of us dining and my husband got his side dish whilst the rest of us got our main then we had to wait for ten mins for his main and our sides.... not impressed.
Quite average !food was all right prices not very high ! Bar downstairs is good fun
Special features: business meals, group bookings, outdoor eating
This restaurant is very very expensive, and i can compeer with some famous restaurant where I am going oftentimes like Zuma, hakassan, sketch, Boulud........
The style is very bling bling and too noisy.
The wine menu is craisy, nothing less than 60 pounds per bottle.
One time to see, but never more !
The Italian section is not aligned to Novikov restaurants Group in Moscow. The service is extremely poor. Waiters do not have school, speak Italian to each other about personal problems, no organization. The food is fresh and good, the kitchen works well but I can't not recommend. Please send them to learn the Cipriani's school in Davies Street.
Fantastic atmosphere, accompanied with Italian staff and traditional and fantastic food. We went and they had truffle in season, had fresh white truffles shaved on our pasta. Fresh porcini mushrooms in season, which is definitely not something you will find often in Italian restaurants. Definitely if you are in search of traditional Italian food, this is the place to come! Although the price might be a bit higher than usual. I think its worth it.
Special features: business meals, romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, good vegetarian options, group bookings, Sunday lunch
The venue, decor and music were nice, however, the service was not good, the desserts were late and the food is overpriced
First visit and really enjoyed the food - varied menu fish and meat including a lot of different seafood carpaccios for appetizers.The complimentary vegetable spread for the bread is good too.The restaurant is split into two parts - Italian and Asian. We dined in the Italian side. Good friendly service and lots of staff. There is a nice buzz to the place. One unusual thing was the presence of bouncers at the door presumably because of the bar/lounge downstairs. Seemed a bit ott as I don't think it's a club or anything. Will try the Asian restaurant next time.
The people of the reception were cold and unfriendly. The service was normal, but like in the reception the waiters were cold and made me feel like I was just one more person. I will never go to the restaurant again because they made me feel not welcome, just because I'm young. The food was nothing special, it's like any normal italian restaurant, just with a much higher price tag. The ambience is the only good thing, but it's not worth the money for.
Very very good Italian food made with the finest ingredients served by knowledgable, friendly and well trained staff. The downside? Mainly the cost: £258.00 for two with service (added for your convenience). Two starters, two main courses, two side dishes, two coffees, two bottles of water, one mid-priced Chianti (on a mega-overpriced list). The ambience was frankly very stressful, frenetic activity (on a Weds night) in a cavernous room dominated by music which was way too loud for sanity or comfort. After two visits I would love to go back again for the food but these serious downsides take the edge off that sadly. Yes by all means crank up the sound late on but please not at 8pm it ruins any chance of relaxing and conversation.
I have ever been to in London. Amazing food, perfect service, wonderful atmosphere, great drinks and wonderful presentation and decoration. Very tastefully done.
Both restaurants - Asian and Italian - are perfect: very big choice and high quality of food, service is quite quick and friendly. On the weekend the atmosphere gets hectic but this is London. Very international and fancy crowd.
What a fantastic venue, the service was incredible, and the ambiance was superb along with memorable food. It made our evening
Thank you
Special features: special occasions, group bookings, pre/post theatre.
Food was pretty good but Incredible Buzz was matched by Incredible Bill.
Atmosphere was fantastic. Decorations were posh. Waiters sang Happy Birthday to my father and helped to organize surprise for him!
The restaurant had a good busy vibe and the food was very tasty if a little expensive, decent wine list too.Very loud in the italian room. nice place though.
I took my best friend for a birthday meal at the Italian restaurant We were seated promptly after a drink in the bar (nice but rather dark).The tables are all really very close to one another- so at points it felt we were dining with those sitting around us. The waiters didn't seem to understand our request to see the dessert menu at the start of the meal so we could decide to do starters or mains or mains and desserts. It took a few requests to get them to bring it to us.
The food on the other hand was stunning, we requested a meal off the menu- we fancies lobster and linguine and low and behold they had no problems making exactly what we wanted. And it was absolutely delicious. Lastly this place is pricey, so don't expect a cheap night.
Having hear so much about Novikov from friends and in the media we thought it was about time to give Novikov a try. The restaurant is all hustle and bustle and is a great place to treat some body. However, the restaurant is found lacking in its quality of food. It certainly does not meet the standard set by its level of pricing. The bar in the basement is a welcome treat post-dinner.
Special features: business meals, romance, pre/post theatre
Having previously eaten in the Asian restaurant I was left a little disappointed with the experience from the Italian.
I was very disappointed with Novikov. I had been to the bar downstairs before and thought the Italian restaurant looked good. I gave it a try and my first disappointment was the decoration, up close it looks a bit cheap and dirty. We were given a very small table close to other tables and a barrel so we could hardly move and waiters were often passing by and pushing our chairs. There were no better tables available because they just try and fit as many as they can in. The calamari we had as a starter was well below average though everything else was cooked well. The portions are small so if you have a big appetite you may have to order three courses. The wine menu is extensive and suits all pockets so that was a plus.
Special features: romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, group bookings
Had a good lunch at Novikov Italian. The venue is pretty swanky and came well recommended. Benefits from cool bar in basement. Although atmosphere was good it had the feel of being on a cruise ship. Food was average. Price and wine selection decent but service too slow. Will try the Asia restaurant next time.
Very good location for a quality business lunch
Quality of food was first class, which was perhaps a slight surprise. I had banked on the great atmosphere, people watching and general hubbub - but the food was really, really good. We were in a group of five, but the bigger the better here - it's a fun place from the bar up. Not for a quiet night or romantic couples ...
enjoyed the ambience, impeccable service, presentation style.keep more spacing between tables in italian section.
Delicious food and great, friendly service. Unique, independent family restaurant, not many of these around any more. Great decor, loved the candles, parmigiano grated direct to plate from a big block, awesome lasagne, execellent value. Cheers!
Gnocchi alla sorrentina had so much garlic I still stink a week after, plus it was extremely oily. The cheese used both for the pizza and the gnocchi alla sorrentina was pathetically tasteless. The sauce of the pizza was lacking in both quantity and taste and the dough was not bad but had no salt.
The starter was a shared plate of affetatto misto. Not bad, but nothing that will rock the world in any fashion.
The rabbit stew was relatively good, but nothing fantastic.
The limited wine list had no mention of the years.
Service way too slow both to take the order and to bring the food to the table.
Conclusion: I rather go to pizza express and if I manage to get a table, to Jamie's across the street.

We are limited to where we can eat out as we like to take the dog along too. This was no problem and we all enjoyed some of the best homemade pasta recipes we have ever had. The staff and owner were delightful and very helpful. Looking forward to another meal soon.
Special features: romance, outdoor eating, child friendly, outstanding value, Sunday lunch
I went with my wife on a Friday night and we're first greeted by a young lady who appeared to be new.
We found a nice table near the Window.It took a long time for anybody to ask for a drinks order and the we were presented with the Menu by a very flustered lady,who appeared to be in charge.
The menu did not have a lot of variety, and we chose the Traddional Lasange which was tasteless.
I ordered a drink that never arrived,but was charged when I was presented with the bill.
The Restaurant it self was very quaint,but the Food and service let it down.It's possible we went on a bad night,where it appeared there was new staff who were under training.
Nice food
Went to Rococo with friends. Food was nice, staff could have been a bit more attentive. Would go back.
This is a fantastic local restaurant. Emily, the manager is incredibly friendly and welcoming. The service is efficient and the staff are always attentive yet thankfully not overly so. The food is very good: the menu is authentic Italian, very well cooked and delicious. Specific dietary requirements are always accommodated. The wine and spirit menu is also wide and varied. Children are welcome and well catered for. The lunch menu is fantastic value: a wide selection of main courses are each priced at £4.95. This is a great place to spend time with friends or family over a bottle of wine and a tasty meal and I heartily recommend it to everybody.
Food wasn't great but atmosphere was friendly neighbourhood restaurant. There was a big family party with lots of noisy kids enjoying themselves. I sat outside with my after dinner coffee and it was very pleasant with view of the Thames. I would go again but without expectation of more than everyday cooking
First time at this restaurant, and was disappointed! We were greeted by a young waitress with a smile who lead us to a table at the back (nice start). we walked past the wife/owner sitting on the sofa looking at her laptop with her dog next to her (not so nice). My wife asked about one of the specials (Chicken & Asparagus).
Starters were good, Mussels & Sardines. Main course I had Linguine Gamberetti. I like hot food, but found the chilli too hot. My wife chose the Chicken & Asparagus, most of it was over cooked! Not so special afterall. Desserts we decent enough.
We waited over 10 minutes for our bill, very frustrating! Eventually we got up and went to counter and paid there. Wont be going back! Shame as it is in a nice location.
Always good food and very friendly service. Good ambiance even when quiet - has an intimate feel. Good for a romantic meal but children, mixed groups, old and young all made to feel welcome also - truly Italian. Balcony cleverly designed so that al-fresco eating undisturbed by the wind, even if very blowy outside. Pizzas and calzone excellent, never been disappointed in the pasta - lots of good fish dishes for mains. Not 'cheap cheap' but very good value for the quality of the food and wine. One of the best restaurants in Kingston.
Special features: romance, fit for foodies, special occasions, outdoor eating, pre/post theatre
Four 50 something blokes well used to dining in all types of restaurant had a superb evening on the terrace overlooking the Thames dining on authentic home cooked food. Welcome and service were excellent, the owners, a lovely Maltese lady and her Italian husband/chef couldn't have done more for us including ending the night with a shot or two of Grappa. A proper restaurant this, delightful. Give it a try, we'll definitly be returning.
Special features: fit for foodies, outstanding value, outdoor eating

It was great to be able to sit outside in the sun by the river after all the terrible weather we have been having. We went for pre-theatre dinner. The menu has chef's specials, pasta and pizza so there is a good choice depending on what you want to spend. We had main courses off the Chef's special list - all of which was perfectly nice and very reasonably priced. I would visit again.
Went to Rococo in Kingston before going to the Rose Theatre. The restaurant overlooks the Thames. Had calves liver and linguine - portion size large, nicely presented and cooked well. We were the only people in the restaurant at 6pm on a Tuesday night.
This is an outstanding restaurant - both food and drink can be recommended - with excellent service from Italisn waiters. We can't fault it. We hoped to spend New Year's Eve there but it seems to be closed from 22 December until 7 Jan. What a pity! The only problem is the lack of other diners. We went as a group of 3, but people joined us so we ended up at two tables and 6 people.But there was only one other group of happy diners there so we are concerned that it won't last all that long. It's incredibly convenient for the Northern Line, being next door to Mornington Crescent station. Wondeful experience.
Very disappointing. I had eaten at Amadora in Richmond the previous year and enjoyed the meal very much. However, this was not the case this time. We chose the special offer with two choices for each of the 3 courses. We began with chickpea and lentil soup. My friend returned hers as it was too salty for her. We both chose salmon and pasta with cream for the main course. We did not enjoy this as it was stodgy and oily. My friend chose chocolate cake to finish but it was not a cake at all. It was chocolate in gelatine so she left most of it. Mine was ice cream with amoretti biscuits crushed in it. That was alright.
We had to get to the theatre so just paid up and informed the staff of our criticisms. Staff were very attentive and helpful.
We had read beforehand that this is a restaurant that tends to get one star or five. We booked for the £22.95 lunch, advertised as a 3 course meal and glass of prosecco. When we arrived, the waiter looked nonplussed and it took him twenty minutes to produce a menu, which had two choices for each course. The problem was that one of the secondi platti wasn't available and neither of the desserts. He eventually returned from the kitchen with another choice for secondi platti, a beef stew he said, 'which is not bad'! It was 45 minutes before we received our starters. The food was OK and the wine was good, if overpriced by the glass. The heating did not seem to be on and we left, pretty dispirited by the experience.
-booking confirmed @ 9am for same day 6pm
-they called at 17:20 to say they were fully booked and at 17:24 to say they would not honour the 50% off offer
-the booking was accepted as we would be away by 19:15 ( for theatre)
-re the menu for the day, we were the 1st customers there and the asparagus was off already, we ordered beef and guinea fowl, 10 mins later we were advised that we both needed to order the same thing
-everything was slow (purportedly due to the "freshness of the guinea fowl")
-we didn't have time for dessert
-we didn't have time to quibble the 15% service charge
-by way of apology we were offered a free glass of wine if we returned, judging by the stack of such vouchers I sensed an issue with attracting repeat customers
Be aware of this offer. The 50% off offer does not include bread and side dishes (they have a new definition of food!). Food is poor for what they are charging. There are better Italian restaurants in Richmond nearby. Shame.
We found this restaurant through top table and could not have been happier! It is quite off the beat and track so probably would not have found it otherwise. The restaurant is full of character and spread over three floors. The service was really friendly and the food fantastic. With the 50% off deal it was outstanding value. An overall lovely night and will definitely recommend to people.
Even with a 50% discount this restaurant struggled to be of value. Very limited menu, that hardly resembled Italian. Wine list was way to brief and overpriced. Better value elsewhere. Think they need new batteries in their calculator.Arrived to be told 50% offer was cancelled and that was a surprise. There was a gas smell from the next building and the meal was expensive, but they brought the delicious food very quickly so we made the film on time! The service was exceptional
The restaurant's picture looked nice and with the special offer I decided to try Amadora. Due to Rubgy day, they only had Rugby menu - no special set menu, which I was informed by phone before the date but I didn't expected such high prices for simple foods. The ground floor was OK but the upper room, where my friend & I dined was dated. The floor was leaning, the chairs were old. There was a group of Rugby fans and they were making terrible noise but the staff just ignored and let them carrying on talking loudly. The other diners were astonished and exchanged eyes as not approved. When the bill came there was a free offer of prosecco for next visit but we didn't bother taking it nor other diners.

The importance of good restaurants to a city is about more than simply providing good food to its residents. When you think about it, most people living in a city will eat in its restaurants less often than once a week. Restaurants are considered a vital part of the hospitality sector because, more than anything, they are a place where people eat in special circumstances. Often they will be a visitor to the city and not familiar with it, and will consequently have fewer preconceived ideas. Other times they will be eating in a restaurant for business reasons, and looking to impress a potential investor. Or they may be out for a special occasion, looking to mark it in style. One way or the other, it is a circumstance that needs special treatment. 

Small cafes and coffee shops can afford to have a more "take us as you find us" approach, but a restaurant needs to be altogether grander. An Italian restaurant needs to be just as grand again. The whole ethos surrounding Italian restaurants is attached to that country's love of good food, fine wine and glowing hospitality. The culture of Italy is so intertwined with food and drink, and making people smile that an Italian restaurant will be required to keep to certain standards, whether it is in Venice or Venice Beach. There is no excuse, nor any allowance, for being anything less than excellent. And in a city like Orlando, where there are hundreds of Italian restaurants, things need to be extra special if a restaurant wants to stand out. 
Christine's is just such a restaurant. The Italian standards of food and wine are lived up to in no small way here. Restaurant reviews constantly praise its high standards of service, quality and ambience. Orlando Fl has got so many places to choose from when you want to eat Italian food, so to be highly rated requires a concerted effort and standards that are applied rigorously from within. Although there is plenty of competition providing external pressure, it is hugely important to remember that good hospitality is not something that can be done on the basis of duty - it needs to be considered an essential part of your business, and a minimum standard for anyone working within it. 
Carmine’s, with two locations in NYC, is one of the best restaurants I have been to in the city. They serve Italian food, family style , at a reasonable price. I have only been to one of their locations, in the theatre district of NYC, but they have another location elsewhere in NYC, Atlantic City, The Atlantis in the Bahamas, and DC. Keep reading my review of this great, Italian restaurant. 
Carmine’s is always very, very busy. I have been there twice and its hopping. There is usually at least a half hour wait if you do not have reservations, which I did both times. The restaurant is loud – its family style – and there is a pretty big bar area. I didn’t have any of the drinks so I can’t comment on them. 
The servers are all pretty knowledgeable. There is even a wine person who comes to your table and recommends wines – I am not sure what exactly the name is of the person. The menu is on the wall, a unique way of displaying it. There are a bunch of them on the walls all over the restaurant so its easy to find. 
The bread was great. I ate two different breads. The first was a small, square shaped pizza bread. There was sauce, parsley and other herbs on it. Delicious. The second was a white bread, but it was more chewy than normal. 
To start, we got a caesar salad. There was so much garlic in it, it was great. It was rich and creamy with not too much of a cheesy taste and just enough spice. The crutons were big and the ingredients were all fresh which is a huge plus because not all restaurants always have fresh ingredients. 
Next, they brought out the pasta, Penne a la Vodka. It was the best vodka sauce I have ever had. The sauce had the perfect balance of cheese, spices, herbs, tomatoes that it was just insatiable. Topped off with some parmesan cheese, it was the best tasting pasta I’d ever had. The pasta was cooked homemade not too firm and not too chewy; it was just the right amount. 
Lastly, we decided to be old fashioned and ordered chicken parmesan. I haven’t had it in a while and I was really impressed. The chicken was breaded and fried on the premises. The tomato sauce was homemade and made with fresh tomatoes, giving it a more authentic taste. 
Overall, this is a great restaurant. I can’t even think of anything bad to say about it. I had a great time, the food was great, the atmosphere was great and the service was great. If you are looking for a good Italian family style restaurant, check out Carmine’s in NYC. Let me know if you have been there! 
Anacapri's is an excellent choice for dinner whether you're going on a nice date or just having a jeans-and-t-shirt dinner with friends. The food is excellent and reasonable, the service is always congenial, and the attached Italian market has a great selection of imported meats, cheeses and fresh pasta. Reservations recommended. Now open is a take-out only Anacapri in the Old Cutler Towne Center. 
With its menu of heavenly homemade pasta dishes (such as their pesto- and ricotta-stuffed ravioli), you may be tempted to stick with these delicious treats. If you do, you'll be missing something far rarer in Miami- some of the best thin-crust pizza this side of New York. 
An interesting blend of Argentinean and Italian fare, this family-owned restaurant has roots in both countries. While Mamma and Papa work the kitchen, their children take care of the rest. Certainly a place to see and be seen, the cafe is reminiscent of true Italian cafes, with framed art on the wall and a cozy atmosphere. Reservations recommended. 
An upscale dining experience. Although a little pricey, the atmosphere of this warm dining room with dark wood trim is worth the expense. Also enjoyable is the people-watching; celebs often dine here. While the regulars do get special treatment, it is worth it to get on that list. The food and portion sizes are excellent. Reservations required. 
An unusual fusion of Latin American and Italian. This place may look like a hole-in-the-wall to a passerby, but it's truly one of the best-kept secrets in Miami. Exotic dishes will keep you coming back for more. Reservations recommended, but not accepted on weekends; prepare for a long wait or try for a weekday. 
Don't let the small exterior of this place fool you; inside is one of the best atmosphere's I've found anywhere in Miami. A decor of Italian knick-knacks and paintings makes one feel quite at home, while the small size feels more like a large dining room. The dress is casual, but don't plan on bringing children; they don't have high chairs. Reservations are recommended. 
Although this restaurant is in a shopping center, you would never know it once you step inside. The neon lights decorating the inside give it a more casual flair and encourage boisterous, friendly conversation, however the layout belies its size and makes it feel quite homey. The food is wonderful and a highlight is the olive and cheese spread at the appetizer bar. 
Beneath the noise of Crobar is a one-of-a-kind restaurant, the kind of place that anyone in gourmet circles will be talking about. The daily specials, such as ravioli stuffed with crab and scallop in a lobster sauce, make this place worthy enough of daily visits to try the latest creation. Reservations are definitely required, since to be seen at Osteria del Teatro is to be "in" with the food crowd. 
La Loggia is a classic Italian restaurant located in the heart of downtown Miami. Its location across the street from the courthouse makes it a popular spot for lunch, dinner or an after-work drink. I heartily recommend the lobster ravioli! 
Big Tomato's gourmet pizzas are unlike any other in Miami. They're a mix between Chicago deep-dish style and California-style toppings. If pizza's not your thing, Big Tomato also features salads and wraps. 
Established since 1989, La Fiorentina is currently enjoying 20 years in the business of providing quality Italian food in the Southside of Glasgow. Over the years, this snug Trattoria has become quite an institution and lured by the traditional setting, family atmosphere and wholesome dishes, customers continue to flow through the doors.
La Fiorentina is a great restaurant for families with young children, couples and groups with its relaxed, cosy ambience and swift, courteous service. Set menus include seasonal saver menus, special two course business lunches and early evening two course dinners, as well as the a la carte menu.
A perennial favourite on the menu of any Italian restaurant has to be garlic mushrooms and this restaurant serves them to perfection. Stuffed with a delicious mixture of cheese, onions, herbs and finely chopped ham with a generous helping of superbly garlicky mayonnaise, this is a rich, filling choice so choose main courses wisely! The array of starters also includes lighter options including bruschetta, mussels in white wine and that Italian staple, mozzarella, tomato and basil salad.
No diner will feel deprived of choice when faced with the variety of pasta, pizza, fish and meat dishes on offer. The lasagna, a tantalising combination of tangy bolognaise sauce and creamy bechemel sauce nestling between sheets of pasta, needs no further introduction: it is traditional hearty, comforting Italian cuisine at its best. Seafood Linguine, a winning combination of mussels, squid and crab meat piled on pasta in a tomato sauce, is a treat for seafood lovers but could benefit from a dash of chilli in the sauce to add a little piquancy to the overall flavour.
There is no room for debate when it comes to dessert! Order strawberry mess or a classic tiramisu –both are sinfully creamy and sugary but utterly irresistable and guaranteed to satisfy those who crave something sweet after a meal! Lighter options include cassis royale which provides a refreshing conclusion to the meal and is especially good after steak or other meat dishes.
La Fiorentina is the perfect venue for celebrations, family get-togethers or just dropping in for a bit to eat - relax in the comfortable surroundings, enjoy your meal and plan your return visit before you leave!
La Fiorentina is on Paisley Road West, well within walking distance from the City Centre and is close to Shieldhall Road Underground Station. 
This was our second meal at Scalini’s in two weeks. The first meal was very nice, but the second meal (main course) was poor. My wife had pan fried breast of chicken in a sauce, but the chicken appeared to have been steamed as it was totally white, and the sauce appeared to be out of a packet, as it was very glutinous. 
An excellent Italian restaurant. Pricey but the food and service is the best we have had in Cardiff. If you're after a pizza, go somehere else, this place operates at the higher end of the market. The only dissappointment was the lack of a reasonable priced sparkling wine; with starting prices at £26. It is very much beauty and the beast; a lovely interior hidden by a fairly gruesome exterior. In our 20 years in Cardiff we have never considered going here, purely because it looks so scruffy, but now that we have been we certainly will go again. A hidden gem. 
One of the great delights of Italian food is that there should be a good Italian restaurant on virtually every doorstep. Situated in a residential area close to Roath Park Lake in Cardiff, this is exactly what good local food should be.
Authentic Italian in every way, the fish specials are a delight. The quality of service is second to none, and judging by the steak I had this evening, the food is also of top quality.
By all means, try the many chain Italian style restaurants that now reside in Mermaid Quay, but for real quality and value for money (this is not a cheap restaurant) this is the place to choose. 
Having walked and driven past this restaurant for 9 years now without even considering it as an option, we decided to give it a go on the reccomendation of a friend.
The interior is very classy, almost tardis like when considering the exterior appearance. We were seated promptly, served drinks whilst waiting for a table and shown to our table by professional and courteous staff.
The menu was authentic italian. The previous comment of not having pizza on the menu raised a smile in my household. If you are expecting that kind of 'italian' food then i suggest La Lupa or The Italian Way. This is authentic italian meat and fish based dishes, sourced well, cooked with skill and presented with flare. The waiting staff were excellent and passionate about the food, I eneded up having a conversation with the chef about how he cooked the salmon. He was keen to share his passion and tips whcih i thought was a cut above.
Yes its not the cheapest place to eat, but good meat and fish is not cheap. Its obviously a local gem as its always surprsingly busy and hasnt dissapointed yet.
As mentioned before there are plenty of 'pizza and pasta' italians (many of which dont do that part of the italian cusiine justice) and Scalini's isnt one of them. Excellent food and a surprisingly consisent local gem. 
much looking forward to trying out scalinis, but was dissapointed in the five basic pasta dishes they had on offer. however, after asking the chef for a meat pasta to be made up if possible, they obliged. 
we were also shocked not to see pizza on the menu (which we found unusual for an Italian).
although the food was enjoyable, we found it to be very expensive - two mains, consisting one pasta dish (we were charged £4.00 for adding bacon!) a fillet steak, 1 portion of garlic bread, 2 b ers and 2 cokes, costing £70!
overall a very expensive night (we were in and out in an hour). a night to be remembered-for the wrong reason! 
The only ITALIAN to go - i would never go anywhere else 
Can not fault it, superb in all ways, well apart from scruffy rear, but thats only where you pop your car. Cost us a fortune that night and happily stayed 3 times as long as need, but fantastic place. 
Very good food with a friedly service. Fabolous fresh fish and nice steaks. 
I go to Jollies quite a few times ina year. I have always found the restuarant to be one of the best in Edinburgh. Waitresses are attentive and very plesant. Do not believe these bad reports...... they definately look like a case of bad business rep. I have never heard of anyone having a bad meal here. I certainly have never had a bad meal here, quite honestly I do not think "Vito" the owner would allow it. He is always on hand to make sure you are happy and having a nice time. As for the food. It's tasty, satisfying and above all very reasonably priced. If you are in Edinburgh, have a meal here. You will not regret it. 
found this restaurant on 2nd January when going to a show in the Pavillion. It was a terrible night, snowing and very cold. After parking the car, it was the first place we came to, and I am so glad we found it. Certainly not posh or fancy, but so warm and welcoming, with a typical Italian ambiance. We loved it. Food was fantastic....sooo tasty... can't praise it enough. House wine was really nice, and we felt the prices were very reasonable. It was very busy, but we were attended to quickly. Going again in February with friends. 
For some reason I'd heard wonderful things about Jolly throughout my younger years but it was only in the last few years when I moved to Leith that I actually found myself finally going there - and I haven't looked back since. Finding out that the restaurant also delivers pizza means that moving to this end of town has made me put on about 2 stone but it's absolutely worth it! :)
Pizza on a night in, a bite to eat before heading to the Playhouse for a show, grabbing a table with a bunch of friends after a few drinks in town, getting together with family for someone's birthday...The Jolly always hits the spot. It's not stuck-up, flashy or pretentious....but the people who go there regularly do so because it's friendly, it's laid back, the staff take the time to make everyone feel at home even when they're run off their feet (and it's often very very busy!) and most importantly, because the food is just DELISH.
If you're a pizza obsessive then this is one you just have to try - you won't find a better one in Edinburgh. Personal favourites include the Pizza Gingerino (ask them to add mushrooms) or the Pizza Pino. Yum.
It's not flashy, it's just yummy food. Go try it. 
Being half Italian I'm ashamed to think the people of Edinburgh think this may be typical of the food and service you should expect from and Italian restaurant.
Waiters were, at best, uninterested. More accurately rude and useless.
Food arrived quickly but was bland, lukewarm and tasteless.
In short, this place is best avoided. You'll get a more authentic Italian meal from your nearest Dominos or Pizza Hut. 
I cannot believe anyone enjoys this place. Cheap and cheerful? Well its definately cheap but the taste of the food confirms this. Starters are a throw back from the 80's, look and taste awful. The pasta was over powering with garlic that I could taste it for hours afterwards. The bacon was frozen cubes that were full of water. Myself and my boyfriend barely ate anything that was put infront of us. The music - Chirpy Chirpy Cheep Cheep and YMCA?? We felt we were are a kids party.It couldnt have been any cheesier. The chef obviously does not know what italian cusine should taste like. And for everyone that says how great the pizzas are. Well of course they will be great - To sprinkle some cheese and mushrooms over a dough and pop it in a lovely woodburning oven - what a hard job for any chef to do? Dissapointed is an understatement. If you are going to go to the trouble of spending some money on a night out iand looking to dine italian cuisine - in this current economic climate - sdont waste your money and stay clear of this place: Im sure for a few extra few pounds a head you could at least get something that is you can eat, tastes italian, without the kids part music, and not walk away feeling you have been ripped of! 
Obviously the very bad review has to be from a competitor. (Disclamer, Vito is a friend of mine)
I have been going to Jolly’s for years. It is a wonderful place. All of the Staff are terrific, Vito would not allow it any other way.
The food is delicious, the service is good and the atmosphere is very friendly and relaxed.
All I can say is read ALL of the reviews below and do not be taken in by obvious bad reviews.
That goes for any review on this site for any Restaurant. 
I am gobsmacked that this restaurant is in the top ten in Edinburgh. Went there for lunch with my husband, a very rude waiter took our order. Did not ask us what toppings we wanted on the pizza. We asked for ground pepper and not any of the staff could find a pepper mill that actually worked, also the parmeasan was not fresh. The pizza and pasta however was ok.
The decor was disgusting, the walls were filthy, the toilets not much better. The hand drier does not work and there are no paper towels.
The food was acceptable for the price. Not worthy to be in the top ten! 
As a business user I have taken clients to Jollys over the years and colleagues. None have ever been anything but impressed by the atmosphere, the excellent food and wine and of course, Vito himself.
A taste of Italy on your own doorstep and the best value in town.
It's not to be missed 
Luigi's Italian Restaurant provides quality food, a relaxing atmosphere and reasonable prices, making your next dining experience incredible.
As an Italian food enthusiast, I am always looking for great independent restaurants close to us that provide a comfortable atmosphere and excellent food.
I’ve discovered an incredible Italian restaurant in Centennial, CO—Luigi’s Italian Restaurant—that puts those chain restaurant giants to shame.
The Atmosphere at Luigi’s Italian Restaurant
From the moment you walk in the door, the outside world melts away. With authentic Italian decorations including a faux vineyard over the bar area, soft lighting and Dean Martin crooning in the background, it’s impossible not to unwind and relax with good company and even better food.
Forget about overhearing details about last week’s ladies’ night from the customers seated next to you because the tables are spaced generously apart, allowing for privacy and comfort. Luigi’s also offers an outdoor patio which is a fantastic seating option during the summer and fall.
There’s an even split between families with children and adult parties, as Luigi’s Italian Restaurant caters to all types of clientele. On most nights you’ll see the “regulars” sitting at the bar enjoying a cocktail or a glass of wine. If you choose that seating option, you’re sure to have an experience reminiscent of walking into a Cheers episode.
The Food at Luigi’s Italian Restaurant
You’ll start off your meal with complimentary freshly baked garlic bread that tantalizes the taste buds while you explore the menu. The appetizer selection includes classics such as the sausage and pepper plate and calamari, but if you like mushrooms plan on ordering the Cremini Mushroom dish.
The entrée selection is diverse and ranges from traditional Italian cuisine like spaghetti marinara, baked ziti and lasagna. Luigi’s Italian Restaurant also has some great dishes that fuse seafood with classic Italian ingredients—like their Salmon stuffed with fontina cheese. Don’t forget about their pizza selections, once you try one you’ll never go back to corporate pizza again!
For a lighter dining option, you may want to try a bowl of their award winning minestrone soup, voted the “Best Minestrone in Denver” by Westword. The sausage that makes this soup legendary is prepared according to an old family recipe and is sure to have you ordering a second helping.
When it comes to the desert options, the chocolate cake is the best on the menu. Imagine rich dark chocolate pudding mousse sandwiched between two layers of moist chocolate cake, topped with creamy chocolate icing and finished off with chocolate shavings. I nearly orbited the earth when I had my first bite.
The Pricing at Luigi’s Italian Restaurant
Luigi’s Italian Restaurant is right on target in terms of cost with most other independent Italian restaurants in the area. Keep in mind that every menu is prepared fresh daily and their food quality reflects this as do the prices. You might also consider trying their cuisine at lunch when prices are about 30% less, although not all of their entrees are available on the lunch menu.
What a fantastic restaurant. We enjoyed drinks at the bar whilst waiting for our table for 10. The menu was perfect, the service was friendly and professional and the atmosphere was busy, lively and entertaining. All of us had a great time and would certainly recommend it to others. Probably our favourite restaurant after 2 further visits and another next week.  
Sorry, but had an appalling service experience. Not what you would expect from a location such as this. Table not ready on arrival (would not have been so bad, but didn't take drinks order until prompted), at one point the wrong wine was delivered, the main course arrrived piecemeal with the accompaniments forgotten and generally unattentive and inexperienced staff made this a night to forget and a place to avoid. All that said, the food was great. 
The food was just alright and the portions are very small!! Also would be good to have more variety on the menu. The service was very good. 
In Dubai, so far it is the best Italian restaurant n pizzeria......try the linguine alla bottarga at the restaurant and the pizza Sarda in Pizzeria...then you would understand what I am talking about. Very good 
The re-born Bussola is absolutely gorgeous, this is the second time I visited it, the first time I was with my co-workers and it was superb, then I went with my boyfriend and we couldn't stop noticing the perfection of service combining with amazing food, the staff is so friendly and super attentive.
The buzz was incredible, no wonder is so hard to book a table.
Try the Mojitos, I don't know what they put in it but is divine.
This is the best Restaurant in town that's it! 
Place is nice, but the portions are extremely small and the variety is not that great. The people are nice but they need to improve the food. 
Dominated by its beautiful chapel and a rich historical heritage, CHIJMES is indeed known for its popularity amongst both tourists and Singaporeans. However, what you probably might not know is that if you were to venture further into its nostalgic compounds, you will discover Capella, a modern Italian restaurant which would change your opinion of what Italian cuisine really is. Besides being a relaxing place for expatriates and white collar workers in the city area to unwind at the end of a day, Capella is also an ideal setting for corporate events, wedding solemnizations and birthday celebrations. Headed by Chef Jason Lee who is a veteran with more than 20 years of experience, Capella delights its customers with its delicately crafted Italian fares. 
Unlike other Italian restaurants where you expect the typical pizza and pasta, Capella surprises its diners with a unique Italian experience. Its innovative Italian delicacies deserve a worthy praise. Even though the choices are rather limited, quality food is definitely assured. There is perhaps another secret that you might not know: Capella tweaks and refreshes its menu once every six months. It is no mere coincidence that its customers keep coming back for more! 
I went to Topolinos with my boyfriend for a Valentines evening meal. On entry it looked ok, reasonably quiet and romantically lit, although very quiet for Valentine's Day. The problems started almost immediately when it was apparent that our Valentines meal which had been advertised with a complimentary glass of wine was in fact false advertising. We were onot offered a complimentary glass of anything, which is disgraceful really considering the full cost of the meal was over £80. Rather than making a scene, my boyfriend ordered overpriced wine from the list and two glasses of coke.
The food was clearly not Italian. I ordered chicken with red wine sauce. What I received was butterfly breast of chicken in GRAVY with pieces of black pepper floating in it and a side dish which contained a few oily pieces of green beans, potato and one piece of carrot.
On leaving the restaurant, the waiter presented me with 2 red roses. I felt uncomfortable as he had been quite offensive throughout and personally I can't see why it would be acceptable to present someone else's girlfriend with red roses whether it is valentines or not. I accepted to be polite, but I would have preferred the supposed complimentary glass of wine earlier, better food and something which resembled table service.
We will not be back as this is the worst valentine's meal/experience I've ever had. 
I have been to Topolinos on a number of occasions and it has always been excellent. 
The staff are very friendly, the atmosphere is great and the food is very tasty. 
I have been to Topolinos on a number of occasions and it has always been excellent. 
The staff are very friendly, the atmosphere is great and the food is very tasty. 
Went to Topolinos on Christmas Day, excellent service :- staff very friendly and attentive. Food was first class ( staff even.adapted dishes to suit individual preferences). Tony's singing was a nice touch. My wife and I would highly recommend this Restaurant. 
I went with my colleagues for our Christmas night out which we had book ed 10 weeks earlier. .. no tables available ! - completely overbooked ( another party of 16 in front of us were hanging around an hour after they should have been sat down . ) We had no option but to leave... we took our deposit which Topolinos had had interest free for 10 weeks. Our celebration was potentially a wash out . Disgusting example of greed/incompetence or both! 
I booked a surprise lunch for my Mother-in-law's 60th birthday last Saturday.
I had spoken to the restaurant twice that week to confirm numbers & a time of 12:15 for lunch. We turned up on time, only to be met by suppliers waiting on the doorstep - no one had bothered to turn up to open the restuarant. Luckily my Mother-in-law wasn't to turn up until 12:30 so we had 15 minutes to find an alternative restaurant for her surprise birthday celebration, which was really stressful as there are not that many decent restaurants on that end of Sauchiehall Street. We had come up from London as a surpise & we were really looking forward to eating at Topolino's (due to the great reviews on this site) so we were incredibly dissapointed. Half an hour later I eventually managed to get through to someone in the restaurant on the phone only to be told they would not be opening til 3pm that day & there were no lunch reservations in their diary. Unfortunately we could not wait until 3 as we had matinee theatre tickets. Luckily we managed to find a table at a different Italian restaurant which was fine. I did not recieve any apology from Topolino's & shall not be reccommending this restaurant to anyone. 
to sum up in one word "Superb" very pleased 
Topilino's is a fantastic place but the most important is the service wonderful. 
Was looking for a good Italian as my husbands Italian and was missing his moms home cooking, was recommended to go thre by a friend, what can i say, Had a fantastic experience from the moment we entered, Everyone was very welcoming, very busy place, didnt like the fact that the pretty waitress took a shine to my husband, spoke to him when taking order and ignored me completely so will not be taking him there again. FOod was really tasty, warm and eatable, wine was tasteful and desserts were good!! I would recommend this joint to everyone, wether your dining for 2 or 20 its good. 
i arranged my husbands 30th at topolino's and i would recommend it to anyone. the staff were very helpful and pleasant mannered, the food was fantastic and so much to choose from, very organised (there was over 30 of us there on saturday night!) will defenatley go back for dinner for two!! the price was great,and not over the top considering we were in the heart of the city!! 
My boyfriend and I dined at Anacapri on New Years Eve. To say the least, the food was awful and unfresh. The risotto and ravioli are strongly not recommended dishes. We were rushed through the dinner. They packed too many table into the restaurant so people couldn't even leave without moving the next table. Finally, sent back the stale risotto only to be charged full price at the end. We told them how bad the food was and they didn't even apologize. This restaurant is seconds away from my doorstep and I will never eat here again! DO NOT EAT HERE...you will be disappointed if you like good authentic italian food. 
I have finally found a little gem in the heart of west end.
Fantastic good at a very reasonable price but unfortunately might need to book as this weekend we got caught out and there was a queue.
Would definately recommend this if you want some real Italian food. 
lovely and wonderful experience~ 
Everything is lovely and wonderful, and pls remember booking before you go 
This is probably the friendlies restaurant I have ever been to. My Aunt lives just up the road and it has long been her "local". The staff are very attentive and greet everyone as though they are old mates. The food is delicious and clearly home-made. Always enquire about their specials of the day and try and speak to the "boss" who is always very keen to please.
Nice nibbles beforehand are generously topped up (cover charge of £1.00 covers this) and delicious mints with coffees.
Lovely place for a relaxed meal! 
We love it here, the staff are fantastic, the food delicious and the atmosphere wonderful. It is a cosy old fashioned Italian. You should always ask the owner what he thinks is best dish on the menu the day you go. I have never been disappointed. 
I lived by Ana Capri for about 12 months before venturing in -- I have been going back for 5 years. This is very much a neighborhood place, people who eat there live or work nearby, and they pack it out. It is my wife's favorite London restaurant. The owner knows all the regulars, often by name. It is a relaxed place, not a super chi-chi eatery.
It's important to know that there are a lot of Italian restaurant standards on the menu; Ana Capri is in central London and there are things that diners expect. The food tends toward northern Italian too. If you want to get what is really good, make sure to ask the owner for his recommendations (including wind) -- he will discretely steer you away from the things he thinks are off that day, or they things that are not really appropriate to their cooking style; he does not necessarily push the expensive. They are very generous with the crudites etc.
Try the veal, especially on a good day the veal chop, or the steaks. And remember, in any London restaurant fish is best on Friday and usually not good on Monday and Tuesday -- and that is just the way it is. 
Manchester Italian restaurant that welcomes a stylish crowd
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood. 
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon. 
Whether you’re in the mood for a great pizza or a full-fledged Italian meal, Gigi’s Italian Restaurants serve up some of the Tampa Bay area’s best food at affordable prices.
My grandparents frequented the Gigi’s Italian Restaurant in South Pasadena 40 years ago. In the Tampa Bay area, it’s difficult to find an establishment that has managed to survive for four decades.
Because of the family history, I tend to favor the South Pasadena location; although there’s no better way to wrap up a day at the beach than a visit to the Treasure Island location and a piping hot pizza and a cool pitcher of soda.
What makes Gigi’s special? First and foremost, it’s the pizza. Since opening in 1967, these guys have perfected the art of pizza. Their thin, crispy brick-oven pizzas feature fresh dough, a zesty sauce and the ideal blend of cheeses and fresh ingredients. Toppings range from the standard pepperoni, Canadian bacon, ham, anchovies and assorted vegetables to more atypical possibilities such as shrimp, eggplant, artichoke hearts, sun dried tomato and Gigi’s homemade Italian sausage.
That’s only half the story, though: Gigi’s is equally skilled preparing one of their fine Mediterranean classics. Their baked ziti casserole is exceptional and their eggplant lasagna will impress the fussiest of diners. A pasta combo tops the menu, featuring lasagna, stuffed shell, eggplant parmigiana and a meatball.
Gigi’s also offers a wide selection of seafood including onion baked grouper, calamari, shrimp and a grouper parmigiana. A favorite menu item is the St. Tropez: Patrons select chicken, shrimp or grouper which is then sautéed in an extra virgin olive oil, garlic and wine sauce with black olives and fresh chopped tomatoes and served over angel hair pasta.
I have to admit that more often than not, I’m in the mood for pizza. When I’m not, I frequently select the Chicken Pompeii: This is marinated boneless breast of chicken, grilled and then smothered with sautéed mushrooms and onions and topped with provolone cheese.
We offer a selection of Sicilian and Italian food and wine, in a warm and friendly cellar atmosphere. When it comes to the best Italian food in Swindon, Marios Sicilian Restaurant – the oldest Trattoria in the town, is second to none for flavour and atmosphere. 
Enzo and Nino pride themselves on offering the heartiest welcome, the finest food and the best service available for lunch or dinner. In fact, the menu and wine list is so varied and ever changing, with traditional pasta dishes, sea food and some truly delicious desserts, that choosing what to eat is a pleasure within itself. 
Nino’s new Express Menu is, as you would expect, quite superb value and well worth trying when you’re next out to lunch.
Mediterranean, Italian and British dishes courtesy of this charming offering on the Strand.
San Carlo restaurants have received six prestigious awards and are considered some of the finest Italian restaurants in the UK, combining authentic Italian dining with unparalleled service.
Restaurant of the year in Manchester, San Carlo provides the ultimate dining experience with a lively atmosphere visited by many A-list Celebrities over the years. With an extensive menu selection and stunning surroundings, San Carlo promises to be an unforgettable experience.
Italian cooking at its best.
We offer dishes to die for at a price that won't do damage to your wallet. Meat, fish or pasta dishes all cooked the traditional way and all the better for it. A cheerful wine list and diet-busting desserts put the finishing touches to a dining experience to savour... again and again
Contemporary dining at its finest. With a modern take on Italian and Mediterranean food Fresca manages to provide a sophisticated yet family-friendly dining experience. All our food is freshly prepared on the premises every day and ingredients sourced from local suppliers wherever possible. 
Just off busy and bustling Piccadilly, the MC Café Bar, located on the ground floor of ABode Manchester, is the place to drop in to, from breakfast until late evening. Michael Caines' philosophy is that great food should be accessible to everyone and this inclusive attitude means that food here is at once delicious, fast and fun. You can enjoy simply superb coffee or teas together with home baked pastries and pâtisseries; light bites such as sandwiches, paninis and salads; Greek, Spanish or Italian platters to share; delicious pasta and pizza hot from the oven; or full three-course meals including fresh fish, steaks, Goosnargh duck and much more. There is always good selection of wines by the glass or bottle; local and imported beers; and freshly made smoothies, juices and bottled waters. And as the evening draws out, simply slide over to the adjoining BarMC, our chilled, late night lounge bar... 
Down in the cobbled streets of Castlefield next to Dukes 92 lies Albert’s Shed. Bizarre names aside for what is a fairly upmarket restaurant, a lot of fuss has been made over this place so we had great expectations. 
The layout is modern, polished and the staff were very friendly. We ordered the Spanish Torres white wine which was a cracker and not something you find on that many menus so bonus points there. The food however was disappointing. Both the bruschetta and scallop starters were adequate, just, but the former suffered from being bland. We both opted for the steak mains with my partners fillet with peppercorn sauce perfectly okay but my sirloin cut with wild mushroom, baby onion and red wine jus was a real let down. The beef was a prime cut no bother there but the sauce was highly disappointing and almost tasted like it came from a bottle. 
Deserts – sticky toffee pudding and chocolate pot – were again decent but not great and overall for a place with a big reputation and a mid-to-top-end price range we felt a bit let down. As we’ve only been once, we’d give Albert’s Shed a second chance. 
Garibaldi Italian Restaurant & Bar
A superb fine dining authentic Italian restaurant within a modern and energetic environment; can also cater cocktail events, corporate parties and weddings. Casual dinning is also available at Ricciotti restaurants. 36 Purvis Street #01-02, Singapore.
La Vela Restaurant & Café
A classy lunchtime restaurant and Cafe in Jurong serve contemporary Italian cuisine. Distinctive in menus and concept! Lunches, paninis and party platters delivered; office catering and chefs for hire.
Italian food is renowned for its delicious dishes, from tempting antipasto starters to classic dishes like meatballs, pasta, risotto and pizza. Plus with desserts like tiramisu, gelato and panna cotta, you might want to take it easy over dinner!
Stockport restaurant of the year 2007-2008, Amici is a traditional Italian restaurant decorated in Venetian style with murals adorning the walls. It can seat up to 120 diners and is open seven nights a week from 5pm (4pm on Sundays). There's a wide choice of dishes with lots of fish and seafood options as well as extra-mature Welsh ribeye and sirloin steaks. In addition to the main a la carte menu, the blackboard specials change daily at Amici. The wine list is predominantly Italian with a southern bias and.lots of Sicilian wines. If you're in a group of at least six diners, try one of the popular booths and if you're planning a bigger party or celebration, Amici specializes in functions of all kinds including weddings. Friday is party night with 3 courses and a DJ until 1am for £19.95 per person
Ancora in Chadderton, near Oldham, is the latest addition to the San Rocco group of Italian restaurants. The first San Rocco opened in Manchester city centre in 1971 and there are now eight restaurants in the group. Ancora is on Broadway, Chadderton's main thoroughfare, and this new venue follows the same successful San Rocco formula of good Italian and Mediterranean food served in a relaxed and friendly environment. Ancora has a modern feel and extends over two floors with the bar at ground level and the main restaurant above. You can choose from bar snacks or the full menu in the bar area and to the front of the restaurant is an al fresco area. Ancora has a large car park to the rear.
Housed in a tastefully converted pub in Egerton, north of Bolton on the A666, Baroccos opened in 2002 and next year won the Bolton Evening News Best Italian award. In addition to the multi-room Italian restaurant, there's a fully licensed wine bar with relaxing leather sofas where you can enjoy pre- and post-meal drinks. It's open seven days a week for lunch and dinner and can accommodate up to 130 diners in various rooms. 
The Bellavista restaurant, bar and function-room complex in the countryside east of Rochdale boasts stunning views over the Pennines. Dine in the a la carte restaurant or pizzeria or just stop by for a drink in the airy bar. The Bellavista is able to provide two distinctive function suites -- the Altavista and Bassavista -- which are both licensed for civil ceremonies and are able to fully cater for Weddings, Baby Naming celebrations, Parties, Business meetings and Corporate events. The Altavista on the ground floor accommodates up to 150 guests. This light and spacious room has glass doors leading to the mature gardens which are ideal for photographs. It has its own bar and wooden floor throughout, suitable for dancing. The Bassavista is located on the lower ground floor and is suitable for up to 50 guests. Bassavista is ideal for intimate family reunions, small weddings or business meetings. Bellavista is part of the San Rocco group of restaurants. 
Bellini in Ramsbottom is a stylish and contemporary Italian eatery established in 2001. Spread over two floors with a steel and glass staircase connecting both levels, the restaurant was recently described in the press as "the perfect place for top class Italian cuisine at superb value for money." The striking interior is complemented by a varied menu offering both classic dishes alongside those with a more modern twist, such as the Penne Portofino, penne pasta and king prawns flambéed with vodka and chilli and a touch of cream. The pizzas are thin and crispy, perfect with an ice cold Peroni beer on draft. Black leather booths give the restaurant a chic feel and add a touch of class and the lively atmosphere encourages diiners to stay on after their meal to enjoy a coffee or liqueur at the red granite galaxy bar.
Set up by the friendly Neapolitan Cecere family nine years ago, Bertoni's occupies a charming former bank building amidst the stone-fronted properties of the affluent, semi-rural market town of Shaw. Equidistant between Rochdale and Oldham, Bertoni's is also close to Junction 21 of the M62. The newly decorated premises comprises of a downstairs bar and 35-cover first-floor restaurant (disabled facilities/access available). Every dish from the extensive menu is prepared to order with fresh produce and top-quality British meats by a team of Italian chefs using traditional methods. Pizza bases are made in-house and bread is baked on the premises daily. A good selection of Italian wine is available, along with Peroni beer on draught. Open in the evenings from Tuesday to Sunday from 5.30 onwards. If you are looking to arrange a party outside normal hours, please call the restaurant. There is also a 2 course meal deal all evening on Sunday and Tuesday to Thursday for £9.95, add a sweet for an extra £2.50. 
A new addition to the dining scene at the Chill Factor, Café Mef is a family run Italian restaurant that opened in June 2009. It has its own separate entrance - and of course plenty of free parking -- right next to the Airkix Indoor Skydiving Centre and attracts visitors to both the Chill Factor and the nearby Trafford Centre. Café Mef is a spacious, modern venue with floor-to-ceiling windows and an outside terrace area for al fresco dining. The menu choice is extensive and good value with loads of pizza and pasta options as well as risotto, steaks and plenty of vegetarian choices. Café Mef is open all day, every day from 12 noon right through until late, and welcomes functions and corporate events with buffet-style dining available for groups of more than 100. 
Established in 1979, Capannina in Bury has been carefully refurbished in the past 12 months, giving it a fresh, clean and modern look without losing any of the appeal of the original layout. This traditional Italian family-owned restaurant continues to deliver the perfect mix of relaxed and informal dining, and as such, appeals to large parties as well as family gatherings. The addition of three booths has created an ideal area for those times when a quiet table is requested. The menu has many classic Italian dishes like Polpette Napoli, home-made meatballs in a tomato sauce, breaded mushrooms stuffed with goat's cheese, and superb thin and crispy garlic breads as well as a Caesar salad, one of the fresh health conscious options. Pasta and risotto is an important ingredient in any menu and here choice is abundant with dishes like traditional lasagne al forno, penne puttanesca, linguini with clams, spaghetti with prawns and rocket and chicken and mushroom risotto. Main courses include king prawns in brandy, onions and lobster sauce, Involtini di Pollo -- gently rolled chicken breast stuffed with pancetta, mozzarella and sage -- plus prime fillet and sirloins cooked any way you wish. Weekly specials give you a chance to sample the chef's occasional dishes, instead of the traditional menu. 
Casa Belmondo in Royton has been owned and run by the Petrillo family since it opened in 1989 and these days son Roberto is at the helm. The restaurant was refurbished and extended in 2008 creating a light and airy venue that can accommodate up to 100 diners. It manages to be both rustic and contemporary and offers a large and varied traditional Italian menu. Starters range from £4-£6, pasta from £7-£9, pizzas around the £7 mark and there is a good selection of mains including specialities like Filetto Spiedo (fillet steak wrapped with smoked bacon in a red wine and brandy sauce) and Piatto per Giuseppe (pork fillet cooked in a pizzaiola sauce of garlic, capers, oregano and tomato, served with linguine al aglio spiced with a touch of chilli). As well as the main menu there is a specials board with an ever-changing choice of six starters and six mains plus a kids menu and vegetarian options. The wine list at Casa Belmondo is 90% Italian. Opening hours are 5pm-11pm Monday to Saturday and 2pm-10pm Sundays.
Casa Nostra in Westhoughton overlooks an attractive churchyard and serves traditional Italian cuisine with a Sicilian influence. The decor is very much old-school Italian with a prominent red, white and green colour scheme. Choose from pizza, pasta, meat and fish dishes -- all priced very reasonably and all freshly prepared. Live music here Monday to Thursday which helps make Casa Nostra stand out from the crowd. Leo's in Horwich is a sister restaurant. 
This bright and spacious gourmet pizza and pasta restaurant has a contemporary art deco feel to it and is named after a famous Manchester restaurant of the 1920s. Spread over three open-plan levels, Croma is open all day long and doesn't offer just ordinary pizza but a selection of interesting and exotic gourmet choices as well as a range of oven-baked pasta and nine salads including Caesar, Nicoise, Duck and Tandoori Chicken. There is a decent wine list and a good choice of cocktails too. Outside the city centre, Croma has sister Manchester restaurants in Chorlton and Prestwich.
From the team behind Croma in Manchester city centre, the Chorlton branch of this gourmet pizza and pasta restaurant opened in September 2005. The beautiful red-brick building has a stylish and contemporary interior designed by Italian Enzo Apicella which makes great use of light and space. There's a south-facing al fresco dining area to the front and a glass conservatory to the rear overlooking an Italianate courtyard. Croma is open all day long and doesn't offer just ordinary pizza but a selection of interesting and exotic gourmet choices as well as a range of oven-baked pasta and nine salads including Caesar, Nicoise, Duck and Tandoori Chicken. There is a decent wine list and a good choice of cocktails too.
Croma in Prestwich opened in autumn 2007 beneath the new Radius flats. Like its sister restaurants in Chorlton and the city centre, this gourmet pizza and pasta restaurant can boast a stylish and contemporary interior. Croma is open all day long and doesn't offer just ordinary pizza but a selection of interesting and exotic gourmet choices as well as a range of oven-baked pasta and nine salads including Caesar, Nicoise, Duck and Tandoori Chicken. There is a decent wine list and a good choice of cocktails too.
Da Vinci in Sale has been in business 15 years now and you can expect a contemporary Italian interior with lots of terracotta and stone matched with a classic Italian menu offering a huge selection of dishes. Vegetarians are well looked after and there are loads of special deals. Da Vinci is open for lunch and dinner seven days a week and on Sundays right through from 1pm to 9.30pm. There is a special children's menu (£5.95 for under 7's) and functions and groups are welcome.
As the name suggests, the good life is to be found here at Dolce Vita in Bamford, and this popular Italian has been delivering excellent food and service for more than 20 years. The interior walls are decorated with timeless black and white posters of Italy, evocative of the 1950s Dolce Vita. The menu has been recently updated to reflect changing eating habits -- Classic Italian Vitello Milanese remains unaltered but may now be served with fresh vegetables or salad instead of the spaghetti al pommodoro of days gone by. Caesar salad, Linguini with clams, penne puttanesca and fusilli Alfredo are just some of the dishes re-emerging on this menu. The starter menu now has the addition of a popular antipasto dish of salame, Parma ham, mortadella and pecorino cheese. The pizzas are one of the highlights on the menu, in that they are thin based and cooked perfectly, with a range of toppings to suit every taste bud -- 100% mozzarella, tomato, rocket, Parma ham, parmesan shavings, Cumberland sausage, bell peppers, anchovies, sun-blushed tomatoes and salame, to name a few. The specials menu changes frequently and incorporates seasonal produce, and varied fish dishes of the day. Music nights, bring an almost holiday or special atmosphere to the restaurant, and are advertised in advance, so it's advisable to book in time.
This friendly family-run Italian has been a feature on Oxford Road since as far back as 1984 but it was only in the early part of 2007 that the restaurant relocated across the road to larger premises. It can now seat up to 150 people but it's still the same successful formula with a traditional Italian menu with lots of different styles of pasta, pizzas and a good choice of more substantial mains, including steak and fish specials. As well as the a la carte, there are party menus and a new deli cum sandwich bar next door serving snacks. Don Giovanni's is right in the heart of Manchester's theatreland and a good bet for pre- or post-theatre dining. There is also a private function room to accomodate 15-40 guests with 4 courses for just £35 per head. Special offers are available to regular customers. 
Don Marco opened in Manchester in July 2009, adding to the short list of city centre eateries offering al fresco dining. It's also the only Italian restaurant at this end of Deansgate, close to the Hilton Hotel. Proprietor Marco comes from a long line of restaurateurs and his family had a restaurant in Rome; head chef Gaston used to be at San Carlo. It's modern Italian in style but has the feel of a friendly neighbourhood trattoria and has room for 50 diners inside and another 41 outside in the covered Campfield Arcade. The food is classic Italian with an extensive and varied menu on offer and a wine list that's 90% Italian. 
Dough Pizza Kitchen is an exciting new restaurant bringing a fresh slice of pizza, style and choice to Manchester's Northern Quarter. Situated in the heart of the city's independent creative district, Dough offers a contemporary approach to pizza and fuses family friendliness with urban cool to create a unique, affordable dining experience. Dough is set over two floors and has enough room to accommodate up to 140 diners, so whether you require an intimate table for two or want to book your own private space to party, Dough can accommodate you. 
Chorlton's Due Fratelli is a homey and relaxed Italian that now has a full drinks licence. It's open seven days a week from 4pm Monday to Saturday and from 12 noon on Sundays and also has a busy takeaway side and ample parking. Everything on the menu is freshly prepared to order and there is a varied choice, including a daily-changing specials board and a kids menu. House specialities include the Mixed Grill as well as all the Italian pizza, pasta, risotto and main course options you would expect and many of these dishes are also available as takeaway. The whole menu has recently had 40% knocked off the prices as a result of the credit crunch. Due Fratelli can cater for functions for up to 100 people from 12 noon daily and has an outside catering service. Excellent disabled facilities too.
Fresca Italian Restaurant is situated on ground floor level, at Gatehead Business Park, Delph New Road, Delph and can accommodate approximately 140 diners. Dining at Fresca is a sophisticated experience, but one that is also family friendly. The restaurant interior is of contemporary design, with an open plan kitchen adding to the lively and entertaining atmosphere. Executive Chef, Sean Carberry, joined the Fresca team in January 2010, bringing with him years of culinary and managerial experience. Fresca offers a wide choice of authentic Italian dishes, ranging from Pizzas, Pastas and Risottos, to main dishes such as Fillet Steak, Fish and Veal. Fresh produce is sourced from local suppliers ,where possible and delivered daily. Menus are changed seasonally and there are special menus for occasions such as Valentine's Day and Mother's Day. A Children's menu is also available for the younger diners. Fresca boasts a range of exceptional wines, sourced from a supplier that specializes in small, family-owned wineries. Special occasions such as Christenings, Wedding Anniversaries, and Hen Parties can be catered for and events such as Wine Tastings, Italian style Tapas Evenings and Dance Nights are also held. 
Located just off A662 Manchester road near Tesco, Giovanni's is a well established, contemporary, 60 cover neighbourhood Italian. The interior features a polished ganite floor, black high back designer chairs and wooden tables. There is also a cosy bar area for pre-dinner drinks. The open kitchen adds an air of excitment as the friendly and enthusiastic staff help you choose from the traditional Italian menu that features authentic pizza and pasta and risotto dishes that are popular with families and a seperate steak menu which offers seven fillet options and four sirloin dishes, which are also a reason this restaurant thrives. A specials board alerts you to fresh fish delivered daily and other creations from the chefs. The wine list is broad with around 30 wines. 
In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.


Dai Ricchi
Florence, Via Della Docciola 14. Tel: 055/402024 Closed Tuesdays.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

L'Enoteca Fuori Porta
Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi
Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

More Restaurant suggestions,
from Cosa Bolle In Pentola

Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.

She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:

1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch
2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs.
3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon
4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon
5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun
6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town)
7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue
8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon
9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun
10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun
11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch
Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.

And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

He replies:

"Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"

Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
"Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
"The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
"Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
"Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."

Valvona & Crolla (18 Elm Row, EH7. Tel: 0131 556 6066) Valvona & Crolla is the place to go for Italian food. Sadly, the cafe is only open for breakfast and lunch, Monday to Saturday and occasional dinners. It is a complete zoo on Saturdays, and you need to be there by noon to be sure of getting a seat without queuing. Prices seem to have risen here, but standards remain high if slightly less consistent than they once were. The surrounding shop is wonderful. See its listing under Favourite Food Shops.

Valvona and Crolla Vincaffe (11 Multrees Walk, Edinburgh EH1. Tel: 0131 557 0088) Just by Harvey Nichols, V&C's town centre restaurant and cafe is a new addition to the Edinburgh scene. The food in the restaurant is not necessarily complicated, but well-executed Italian dishes made simply from really good ingredients. Not cheap, but very good. The wine list is excellent, with relatively reasonable mark-ups so one can drink pretty well too. There is a good range by the glass too, with open bottles preserved by a high-tech inert gas system. The cafe on the ground floor is good for a quick snack and a glass of wine or just a coffee.

Centotre (103 George Street EH2, Tel: 0131 225 1550) Italian Cafe serving a range of mainly simple dishes (pizzas, etc) and a few hot dishes of the day. We have heard the occasional moan from friends but whenever we have gone we have had a good meal. A dish of grilled butterflied Langoustines on our last visit was delicious.

Santini (8, Conference Square, EH3. Tel: 0131 221 7789) Very serious, rather expensive, but very high-quality Italian food. There is a cafe area too with less ambitious food at more reasonable prices.

La Partenope (96 Dalry Road, EH11. Tel: 0131 347 8880) Here is what Edinburgh really needed: a lively, unpretentious restaurant serving genuine Italian food to a high standard at pretty reasonable prices. The menu is heavy on fish and shellfish, and what we have had has been of an excellent standard. We suspect it is better to stick to the menu of the day rather than delving in to the extensive fixed menu.

Zan Zero (14 North West Circus Place, EH3. Tel: 0131 220 0333, www.zanzero.com) Victor and Carina of Centotre now have a Cafe in Stockbridge, decked out in a cheery bright yellow. There's a fairly simple menu of a few pasta dishes, a few pizzas, and a couple of other hot dishes with an emphasis on fresh ingredients and fresh flavours. We've been twice since it opened last week and will be going again - and not just because it's only round the corner.

Beware of Italian restaurants in Edinburgh; it is mostly overcooked, supermarket pasta with regulation Brit-Ital sauces. One that stood out a bit from the crowd was Librizzis but we haven't been there for a good while. Beyond this, Hanover Street has a mass of pizza and pasta joints serving the usual cliches to about the usual, poor standard.

Great Chicago Italian Restaurant Reviews will bring you on a journey through some of the best Italian restaurants in Chicago.



Thank You

Italian food in Chicago is rich in history. Families who immigrated to Chicago in the early 1900's settled mainly in the areas of 24th and Oakley and Taylor Street. This neighborhood now known as "Little Italy" boasts some of the city's finest Italian restaurants.


 
I'm looking forward to re-visiting quite a few places I haven't been to in a long time and bring you reviews which may help you decide where to go for lunch or dinner.


Places like Bacchanalia, Tufano's, Tuscany, La Fontanella have been there for years serving regional specialties from Northern and Southern Italy.


In the Downtown area of the city you'll also find places like The Italian Village, the oldest Italian restaurant in the city which houses three restaurants in one. This place has been owned by the Capitanini family for three generations. You shouldn't visit or live in Chicago without dining in this historic restaurant.


Off of Chicago's Magnificent Mile Michigan you'll find a few of my favorites like Bice, Volare and Spiaggia. Vibrant and exciting best describes these establishments who feature some of the best authentic Italian dishes in the country.


On the North side I will give you reviews from places like Vinci, Mia Francesca and La Bocca della Verita just to name a few.


And last but not least, I don't want to exclude my friend Armando at La Scarola.


I'm going to begin on the South side and work my way North, so it may take me a while to complete this list. I'll try to enjoy myself with all this hard work ahead of me. Hopefully I'll be able to snatch a recipe here and there.


Recently I discovered Gioco on the city's southeast side which I will cover in my first review. This fairly new Tuscan style restaurant was a place I've wanted to visit for a long time.

Let's begin our adventures into Chicago's great Italian restaurants.


Rosal's Italian Cucina
A little Sicilian restaurant in the heart of Little Italy.

Biaggi's Ristorante Italiano
Great diner and great wine.

The Italian Village
Chicago's oldest Italian Restaurant.

Trattoria No. 10
Nice after work place in the heart of downtown Chicago.

Jilly's Too-The Big Room
Great spot for drinks and live entertainment right in the middle of Rush Street.

Connie's Pizza
Great old neighborhood pizza place filled with memories and tradition.

Terragusto Italian Cafe and Market
This North side Italian cafe serves up excellent organic pasta dishes.

Gioco
Trendy rustic Tuscan cuisine located in a small up and coming neighborhood.

Tufanos Vernon Park Tap
An old reliable place in the heart of "Little Italy" which I enjoyed very much.

The Joynt
Retro Club and Piano Bar is the best place in Chicago for music and cocktails 


Nella Pizzaria Napolitano
The best Neapolitan pizza in the city of Chicago.

The internet is truly opening doors not just in Italian food, but in all international cuisine. But, you do need to be careful when shopping for Italian food online. The first thing you want to do is make sure that the vendor you are buying from is as close to the source as possible. If you are looking for a specific ingredient then look for a vendor that specializes in that particular area. This will help you maintain an authentic taste as well as cut on the costs if you're not dealing with a middle man. See how long the vendor has been in business and what their experience is with Italian food. There are dozens of these Italian food specialty shops online, you just need to find the ones that you feel most comfortable with.
Holiday Italian foods
On Christmas holidays the food may be a little more familiar the actual Christmas day foods. The first course is a very well known Italian food, tortellini. This pasta dish filled with meat is more in keeping with what most people envision when thinking of Italian food. After the meal dessert consists of one of two types of cake, either panettone or pandoro. If you're in Milan or spending the holidays with a family from Milan it will be panettone. This cake like bread takes days to make and is an Italian food that not many people know of, despite it being a symbol of Milan. The other traditional cake is pandoro, a sweet bread that is often made to look like a mountain complete with white sugar icing giving it a snowy finish. Christmas is a great time to taste the sweeter side of Italian food.
Anytime is a good time for Italian food, but the holidays really make authentic Italian food shine as families get together to celebrate with traditional dishes. Try celebrating the holidays with Italian food and you'll be introduced to a side of the cuisine that many don't know exist. 
The way to eat food the Italian way
If you want to get to the heart of Italian food, it's best to go the source. For an authentic experience you don't just need to get into the country of Italy, you need to get into Italian homes where traditional Italian food was birthed. That's right, if you want to get to the heart of the cuisine you need to go where it's cooked and served from the heart, in an actual Italian home. 
One important meal is the secondo or "second course". Here is the main dish. Yes, that's right, the pasta that was just served in the primo, while filling, is not the main dish. The second course is where you'll find the meat of the meal. In the North there will most likely be veal, pork, or chicken. In the South and coastal regions you're more likely to find freshly caught fish. With this course will come a contorno or "side dish". This is where you'll get a chance to get your daily vegetables in. Traditionally this will come in the form of a fresh salad.
Popular Italian food
One popular Italian food ingredient is rice. By far the most popular use for this ingredient is in the signature Italian food dish of risotto. Here rice is mixed with broth, vegetables and spices to make a very unique and flavorful dish. Risotto is widely known as the most popular appetizer in Italian food and different regions take great pride in their individual risottos. Rice is also used in many different soups and stews throughout Italy. 
The most ubiquitous of all popular Italian food ingredients is olive oil. The best olive oil is known as extra virgin olive oil and many Italian food chefs rely strictly on extra virgin olive oil. The difference between extra virgin olive oil and virgin olive oil is the acidity. In order to be classified as extra virgin the olive oil must not contain more than one percent acidity. Virgin olive oil on the other hand cannot have more than two percent acidity. Extra virgin olive oil is by far the most popular in Italian food where it is used not only to cook food in, but also as a dressing for salad and a dipping option for bread. 
However, there are other large chain Italian food restaurants. Places like Macaroni Grill, Carino's, Buca di Beppo, and Carrabba's give a much better Italian food experience. While the Italian food served at these places certainly doesn't live up to the high standard of Italian food set by those who originated it, the food is still quite good. The ingredients at these restaurants are of a higher quality and the dishes are closer to an authentic flavor. Carino's is a great restaurant to go to for a casual meal. Macaroni Grill and Carrabba's are a little nicer and are great restaurants for an Italian food date.
There seems to be a trend today to return to authentic Italian food. People are no longer satisfied with the Americanized Italian food that is often served at restaurants, especially chain restaurants. There is also a move to make more and more Italian food at home. People like to have control over the food and make healthy substitutions or personalize Italian food recipes. This is due in large part to the internet. Before the internet people who wanted to make or buy authentic Italian food had to hope that an Italian family or international market had setup shop in their town or a neighboring city. Also, the Americanized version of Italian food became popular because it was easy and cheap to make. However, with the internet people can now learn online in the comfort of their own homes the secrets to making good Italian food and now that shoppers can buy directly from the source it is cheaper to buy ingredients and prepared food.

The holiday Italian food

The biggest tradition is with Christmas and it starts on Christmas Eve. The traditional Christmas Eve meal doesn't include a lot of Italian food that foreigners may be familiar with. That's because the Italians observe a type of symbolic fast which actually equates to more of a light dinner. This means that there will be no Italian food that includes the typical meats. Instead the Italian food will be centered more around seafood including fish, snails, and frogs. That may sound a little more French than Italian, but it's a great time to experience some excellent traditional Italian food that is hard to find outside of Italy. 

The last holiday that has importance to those who love Italian food is St. Joseph's Day. This holiday is in commemoration of St. Joseph saving Sicily from famine. This holiday centers on a rather unknown Italian food, the fava bean. It was this bean that saved Sicily from starving. So, while this bean is not native to Italy, there are many Italian food dishes that are centered on it in celebration of St. Joseph's Day. The day is spent giving food to the needy, eating doughnut like pastries and enjoying good Italian food.

How to eat Italian food

One of the most surprising things to foreigners about an Italian meal is the first course it typically the most filling. There is an antipasti or appetizer course, but there is no salad or soup to ease your way into the meal. Right from the antipasti diners delve into the primo or "first course". This is the course that will look most familiar to foreigners because it is where that delicious pasta that Italian food is famous for is served. This primo course is where most people's knowledge of Italian food ends. Few people realize that there is much more to Italian food than just this primo pasta.

After having an authentic dining experience, foreigners will leave Italy with a much better grasp on what Italian food is. There is more to this fine cuisine than pasta and pizzas. In fact, by the time the "coffee killer" comes around the primo pasta course is starting to fade in memory, buried by the exciting meat dishes, fresh vegetables, fruits, cheeses, and coffees that have made Italian food one of the most sought after cuisines in Europe. 

Popular Italian food

One popular Italian food ingredient is rice. By far the most popular use for this ingredient is in the signature Italian food dish of risotto. Here rice is mixed with broth, vegetables and spices to make a very unique and flavorful dish. Risotto is widely known as the most popular appetizer in Italian food and different regions take great pride in their individual risottos. Rice is also used in many different soups and stews throughout Italy. 

When discussing popular Italian food it is essential to talk about the most popular breads and pastries. Breads serve an important role in Italian food. They can be used as appetizers, sides to a meal, and desserts. The most popular breads are flavored with herbs, cheeses, and sun-dried tomatoes. An excellent dessert bread in Italian food is the biscotti which means "twice baked". This popular dessert is more like a biscuit or cookie and is often flavored with almonds and spices. Fruit can be added to the biscotti and a popular choice is cherries. Biscotti are very versatile in Italian food, being served for breakfast with coffee or as an after dinner treat.

Italian food is one of the most popular cuisines in the world. It has long been an American favorite and there are countless Italian food restaurants throughout the United States. While Italian food was first brought to this country by immigrants and ma and pop shops, like everything else in this country Italian food franchises are quickly defining this country's perception of Italian food.
There is a wonderful quality about Italian food that makes it a great for dinner wherever you are in the City. Beside Italian pasta and pizza, Italian cooking has established itself to be a universal language of food because in just about every city of the earth, there is that groovy quiet Italian restaurant that adds flavor to the neighborhood's local cuisine. The love for Italian food surely exceeds race, nation and borders.

More than a few decades ago, masses from the culinary rich country of Italy reached the cities of United States in search of improved way of life. Some of them Settled in Chelsea . They brought with them traditional family recipes from their parents, and cooked their way on to many homes and restaurants in the country, slowly creating a niche for Italian cuisine among the neighbors.

Not too much time passed before the oldest Italian restaurant was built in New York in the year 1906. Owned by Sebastiano Maioglio, the Barbetto is s chief historical landmark in New York since it is the first and well liked Italian restaurant in New York. It was the first restaurant officially declared as a historic Establishment in America. It is still held today by the Maioglio family, especially his girl Laura Maioglio.

Nowadays, New York City has been host to the world’s largest number of great Italian restaurants. Italian pizza was without a question the precursor to the changing Italian cuisine in New York City, but there are other reasons for it.
Among these are lasagna, and the ravioli that is one of the familiar fare in virtually all Italian restaurants. There’s the notable vintage Italian wine bars that functions as a welcome option to other costlier establishments. More Italian treats found its way to New York with the trattoria, which came from diverse cities in and around Italy. And for sure, who would ever forget Italian spaghetti? And naturally, the ultimate dining experience is not complete without trying out yet another Italian-born specialty, the extraordinary wines of Napoli.

Italian food provides one of the more distinguishable cuisines, so it is no question why new Italian restaurants keep opening up all over the Manhattan especially in Chelsea . A speedy look of local menus would show that a plethora of nice Italian food from the Italian region and its adjacent places. One would recognize culinary pleasures are as varied as penna alla vodka, lemon fried chicken, chicken marsala, salmon crudi, and other Italian dishes. New York most probably has the largest concentration of Italian restaurants in the United States.
A trip to New York will not be perfect without exploring its impressive Italian restaurant scene. So if you are in New York be sure to have a healthy appetite, make room for food and wine tours, and a good food guide.

These are some of most amazing Italian restaurants in Chelsea and close by.

PT Restaurant is located in Brooklyn. In addition to all this amazing character the food is absolutely brilliant,simple and well thought. This place is an absolute hidden treasure. It is Almost hidden with the magic feel of a quite romantic hideaway. You will have phenomenal time at Bacaro.It slowly makes you feel as if you are eating in an old farm house someplace in the Alpine area. Made me feel right at home. The wine choice is remarkable and the service is pleasant. second floor or downstairs sitting is available. Their lasagna is simple but delightful.

San Domenico is one in a million. Tony and Odette (his award winning chef of over 10 years) visit Italyquite a few times a year scouting out the best dishes, sauces and ingredients to then return to New York City and make a dish fit for a Roman Emperor. Marisa and her great wait staff are at all times making sure that every patron feel like they are the only ones in the restaurant, they never stop planning and know exactly how to make you feel special The owners (Tony and Marisa) spend every waking hour wondering how they can make the dining experience for their patronspleasurable, and it shows.
Eating Italian food is almost like romancing a woman. Italian food is more than just a meal, it's an experience. That's why when you go into an Italian restaurant, there is just nothing like it. The atmosphere is like no other place on the planet, from the music being piped in from old Italy, to the paintings on the walls. A good Italian restaurant feels like you've walked into 17th century Italy. 

The trouble is, these days, it's very hard to find a good Italian restaurant. With everything being fast food today, most of your Italian places are either pizzerias, Pizza Huts, or fast food chains like Sbarros. Finding a classic Italian restaurant in the states, like they used to have back in the 60s and 70s is like looking for the missing link. But when you do find one, this is what you can expect to get there. 

For starters, a good Italian restaurant will have a wine list of just about every Italian wine you could possibly want. The list reads like a who's who of Italian wineries. Don't even think of asking the waiter for a mixed drink as he's likely to deck you. Oh and by the way, the waiters are all Italians. 

The appetizers are absolutely to die for. You've got your usual fair which includes fried zucchini, roasted garlic, stuffed portabello, mushrooms stuffed with crab meat and fried provolone, just to name a few. The appetizers alone are enough to fill you up so you won't even need the main course. 

And the salads. Italian restaurant salads can be a meal in themselves. You don't just get a dish with a little lettuce and some carrots. You get a salad the size of Manhattan Island. And don't ask for any kind of dressing other than Italian or oil and vinegar. Yeah, the waiter will deck you for that too. 

As for the main dishes, just about every Italian main dish has something to do with pasta, whether it be spaghetti, linguini, ziti or whatever. Most of the dish, as it is with Chinese food, is made up of the pasta. However, you do get quite a bit of meat with your meal too. Italians love to eat and they love to feed you. Without a doubt there is no type of restaurant that gives you more food than an Italian restaurant. It would take three Chinese restaurant meals to make up one Italian restaurant meal. Some of the more famous Italian dishes are chicken catchatori, veil parmesan and spaghetti and meatballs. However, there are literally over 100 Italian dishes you could choose from in a good Italian restaurant. 

Italian desserts are probably the most unusual, at least to Americans. They include things with names like spumoni and tortoni. If you don't know what they are, find yourself a good Italian restaurant and experience them. I promise you that it will be an evening out that you will never forget. 

Just don't forget to tip your waiter. Yeah, he'll deck you if you don't.

STATEN ISLAND, NY -- On Richmond Road, one block west of New Dorp Lane, sits the recently opened Francesca’s Steak House & Italian Restaurant. Its menu of hearty Italian dishes and carnivorous grilled fare seemed perfectly suited to the damp grayness of late winter days. We settled in. 
 
The central dining room of tables topped with chocolate brown and white linens is encircled by column style archways that open into a welcoming bar area, a second dining room and a recessed dining cove for a few tables. 

Male servers wear black uniforms and are pleasant and attentive. They treat every diner like a longtime regular which necessitated our making a mental adjustment on our first visit. 

Dishes we sampled featured thoughtful presentations and offered portions to meet winter appetites without being coma-inducing amounts. 

Appetizers and salads were predominately seafood, no complaint here, and two really impressed. Ahi Tuna Tartar, sushi grade as advertised, flavored with capers and lemon and protected by grilled asparagus spears, was delicious. As was Crab Cake, with lobster cream sauce and surrounded by roasted potato and vegetables. 

Zuppa Di Mussels and Clams was a large bowl of fresh shellfish with an herbed raft of toast in a tasty tomatoey broth. Prosciutto-Wrapped Shrimp offered several large shrimp in a roasted red pepper and chickpea puree. There were bits of prosciutto in the presentation but the dish would benefit from a full wrap of the smoked meat around each crustacean. 

Our excursions into entrees were quite pleasurable. Honors went to Short Ribs, lean, tender and generous in size, braised in Barolo wine atop farro primavera “risotto,” dotted with diced winter veggies, this ancient Roman grain subbing for the traditional rice. Applause also went to Prosciutto Wrapped Tuna, the salty meat wrapped around each elongated disc of rare (as ordered) tuna, balancing the flavor of the buttery fish. Tuna accessories were appealing: Umbrian lentils and Sicilian caponata. 

Attention must be paid to a delightful Chicken Paillard Al Mattone. This classic dish, cooked “under a brick,” had much to recommend with a tangle of broccoli rabe, chunks of sausage and light pillows of potato gnocchi in a balsamic roasted garlic sauce. Our steak selection was the 22-ounce T-Bone cooked to temperature and deeply satisfying, offered with both cognac sauce and steak sauce. 

Among several special order sides, we recommend two: Cream of Spinach mixed with Crispy Bacon Bits and a light cheese flavor and Mashed Potato Cake Mixed with Baby Artichoke Hearts, the crispy crust delicious but the artichoke presence should be more pronounced. 

There’s always room for dessert. In a dead heat for first place were Chocolate Souffle, a moist orb of chocolate cake with a heart of creamy rich chocolate, as delicious as it sounds, and Flute Limoncello, citrus-sparked lemon gelato and Limoncello in a champagne flute, a cool-tart ending to any meal. All desserts are housemade except the souffle. 

Francesca’s opened its doors last October. The kitchen is reliably banging out solid flavorful food. We anticipate an interesting menu for the warmer months ahead. We will be sure to return to see what’s cooking.

In a previous life Amalfi Pizzeria used to be known as the 'Lido Café', a famous haunt in yesteryear for the stars who played at the nearby Glasgow Empire Theatre. Besides a few old black and white headshots there’s barely any trace of this history, the decor and soundtrack now harking back no further than the late Eighties. The compact restaurant is kitted out in the classic trattoria style with red tiled floors, roughly plastered white walls and heavy dark wooden furniture. The walls are lined with smartly framed picture postcard shots of Italian landmarks.The open kitchen offers more to look at as the comically dressed cooks wearing huge floppy yellow chefs hats and throw pizza bases to precarious heights. Portions are very generous, the calamari piled high, served with sweet chilli and balsamic. Tiger prawns sautéed in olive oil and chilli are equally plentiful, accompanied by four slices of garlic bread. The pasta menu is self assembly, allowing you to choose your shapes and preferred sauce including a very tasty Italian sausage and red wine. Pizza’s are stone baked, crisp and large, and super fresh – considering it was spinning in the air only moments before.


One of the smarter options for affordable city centre dining, Amarone is found right next to Buchanan Street subway, making it a handy and hassle-free pit-stop. Warm chocolate and neutral tones in the décor, aided by plenty of dark wood and soft lighting, encourage an intimate atmosphere, while the restaurant’s location offers customers a table outside should the day be too sunny to spend in a basement. The kitchen, clearly visible from the lobby tables, serves up a contemporary take on traditional Italian dishes, in hefty portions. Amarone is part of the DiMaggio group, but has a more adventurous menu than its family-focused sibling, proving popular with suits and shoppers. A starter of prosciutto di Parma con fichi supplies sufficient juicy honey-drizzled fig with richly coloured ham to share and focaccia calabrese, one of a diverse selection of seasoned pizza breads, combines its light stone-baked base with a generous topping of raw spinach, sticky caramelised red onion and – a welcome change - cacciocarallo cheese. Traditionalists will be pleased by the inclusion of tiramisu and pannacotta at dessert, but a slice of semifreddo alla nocciola, wrapping hazelnut and vanilla ice-cream in liqueur sponge, is a light and classy arctic roll for grown-ups.

The inclusion on the Amore menu of a ‘Happy’ pizza topped with smoked sausage and french fries is risky but, surprisingly, this particular subversion is an authentically Italian one, replicating the latest pizzeria trend back home. An equally unusual but more popular innovation is the starter of haggis Italiano – a good hunk of haggis on toast, topped with fried egg and a drizzle of balsamic vinegar. The rest of the menu is more traditional and, while reaching epic proportions, has been whittled down in line with customers’ tastes since the launch in September 2008. Pizza from the wood-stone oven is the main focus but it’s a welcoming, family restaurant, catering for the pickiest of appetites - straightforward, unfussy alternatives such as fish and chips sit alongside pasta, risotto and family recipes passed down from the boss. Its premises are huge, but rustic décor and friendly staff create a congenial, informal atmosphere and the close arrangement of tables downplays the size. A circular, central booth seats ten and makes kids feel special, as will the lucky bags and helium balloons. Canny students come for the bargain two-course lunch, eat half a pizza and box up the rest for later.

Just off the foot of Dundas Street, next door to Edinburgh's most famous chip shop – the award winning L'Alba D'Oro – is Anima. Owned by the same people, Anima fills the bellies of its New Town neighbours and office workers with 'Italian soul food', ranging from freshly made pizza loaded with gourmet sausage, creamy gorgonzola or fontina, to toasted ciabatta, salads and steak burgers. Their wallet-friendly lunchtime deals make a filling pit stop -– not to mention an excellent hangover remedy –- and they offer good quality coffees and cakes for the sweet-toothed. Like L'Alba D'Oro, where you can wash your fish supper down with fine champagne, Anima also has an excellent wine and beer selection, including plenty hard-to-come-by Italian varieties.

L’Aragosta is a rustic Italian restaurant in Pollokshieds. Italian football memorabilia hangs on the walls, and staff chat Italian holidays with some of the regular diners. It is cosy and unpretentious, with staff keen to offer customers a traditionally warm Italian welcome. The food is equally hearty, with an impressive selection of traditional pizzas and pastas well executed. The menu also boasts a considerable seafood selection, with the chefs at work keen to bring attention to the oft-overlooked area of Italian cuisine. The restaurant plays host to Italian Nights once a month with are popular with locals, where customers can indulge in a six-course meal complete with wine and live music for £35. With pre-theatre menus, party menus and children’s menus it is clear that L’Aragosta is keen to encourage everyone to sample the delights of their restaurant. With food this good, there’s little more encouragement you could need.

Arcaffe on North Claremount Street is a quaint and friendly Italian bistro, away from the hustle and bustle of the main shopping streets. Although it may seem a bit of a trek from the centre of town, it is actually only around a 15-minute walk from Sauchiehall Street’s busy eateries. The outside is fairly unassuming, looking more like a coffee shop or small café than an Italian restaurant, although the real Italian prowess becomes obvious in the quality of the food. The menu is assembled from the usual Italian favourites – pizza and pasta, with a selection of meat, fish and salads also on offer. Portions are generous, and arrive steaming hot and cooked to perfection from fresh ingredients. With an indulgent and creative dessert selection (if you’ve any room left) which changes on a weekly basis, Arcaffe proves to be well worth the walk.

Occupying the same corner position opposite Hampden Park for almost five years, Canasta’s unassuming exterior means it is easily overlooked. However, after a meal this is no longer the case, for it’s the kind of neighbourhood eatery that ensures loyal regulars from the immediate area and beyond, by serving good food in a comfortable, homely environment. The restaurant is named after Glasgow’s first trattoria, established on Parliamentary Road by the parents of co-owner Marco Giannasi, proprietor of Battlefield Rest. As seems the Italian style, Canasta is snug inside, with soft lighting, warm tones and cushions contributing to the cosy feel. Owner/chef Kenny Watson has put together an inviting menu, mixing standards like minestrone and bruschetta with Loch Fyne mussels, freshly grilled sardines, and a deliciously unctuous fondue of tasty meatballs in a rich, creamy parmesan sauce, accompanied by two big slices of chilli bread to mop up the bowl. Mains eschew pizza for pasta: a firm meaty lasagne and its vegetarian counterpart bolster sufficient hearty meat and fish options, including chunky homemade fishcakes - crisp on the outside but bursting with moist smoked fish when cut open, on a clean and sweet-tasting tomato salad. A much-anticipated chocolate fondue is planned.

Il Castello takes its name from Edinburgh’s best-known landmark, which towers over this compact, split-level restaurant in the city's busy theatre-land. They have been feeding hungry theatre-goers here since 1991, from a menu that reads as a long list of the usual antipasti, breads, soups, pizzas, pastas, risottos and main plates of meat and fish. While long menus can be a sign of a jack-of-all-trades approach, Il Castello gets around this by serving clever alternative options of the same ingredients. A starter of Macheroni Mare e Monti involves large tubes of pasta served with clams and asparagus in a tomato and garlic sauce. The macheroni is also available in other sauces involving artichokes, prawns and chicken. A main of agnello arosto – roasted fillet of lamb served with a white wine, garlic and rosemary sauce – comes with chips that have all the hallmarks of frozen cater-pack standard and a small, plain salad on the side, but what it lacks in finesse it makes up for in flavour. Again, the lamb can come cooked in two other ways. The premises have had a freshen-up recently and are light and modern. The food is almost the opposite, but somehow reassuringly so.

Located within one of Edinburgh’s earliest banks, Centotre’s lofty interior is still decorated with its original plasterwork and pillars. The service counter could be mistaken for the bank’s vault, except that the old vault now acts as the wine cellar in Zanzero, Centotre’s sister restaurant in Stockbridge. Starters range from a superbly simple bresaola to an assortment of antipasti and hand-made pasta dishes, available either as starter or main. Classic Italian combinations are the order of the day here, and a pasta plate with piccante sausage, porcini mushrooms and rocket is applaudable. Desserts, such as a rich roulade with toasted macadamia nuts, fresh raspberries, white chocolate and mascarpone cream, is a pleasant way to round off a meal. The menus are fairly pricey, but for good reason: striking a balance between health and indulgence, the food is lovingly prepared and full of flavour. Children can choose from pasta, pizza, fish or mini Aberdeen Angus beef burgers, followed by either desserts or fresh fruit. The revamped breakfast menu offers healthy toasted cereal, fruit, yoghurt, organic porridge, home-made pancakes and an indulgent full Scottish option. Owners Carina and Victor Contini genuinely care that you leave Centotre a happier customer.

Coia’s Café has the kind of lively buzz only a popular, local haunt can provide. Its identity is a little schizophrenic – part Italian restaurant, part fish and chip shop, part upmarket deli – but each component is worth a visit. If you’re sitting down to eat, do book in advance. The reasonable prices and party atmosphere attract families and crowds of friends, so the place is almost always packed. The menu itself offers few surprises but plenty of comfort food, including burgers, fresh fish and steaks, though the Italian options tend to be the best. The pizzas are particularly good – huge, laden with cheese and good-quality toppings and fresh from the oven (the chefs’ work is fully on display). Pasta is equally satisfying, especially the spaghetti polpette, if you can ignore the questionably fluorescent orange colour of the sauce. If you’ve any room left, try one of Coia’s famous ice-creams, which are proudly displayed in the deli. They’re super-sweet and creamy, and certainly a cut above the average. Do take a minute to browse in the deli on your way out – the oils, meats, pastas and patisserie selection are irresistible, if a tad too expensive for weekly grocery shopping. If you’re ordering a takeaway fish supper, expect quality rather than quantity. The portions are not huge, but there’s no doubting the freshness, and all the fish is locally caught. Definitely a superior fish supper.

Based in cosy basement premises in Stockbridge, La Concha enjoys a loyal following among fashionable New Town types who receive a warm welcome from proprietors Richard and Angela Morano. La Concha is unusual as Italian restaurants go. Italian (and Spanish) ingredients abound, but Scottish ingredients are to the fore: free-range veal, extra-matured steak and West coast mussels, all sourced from Stockbridge’s local food shops. This means that La Concha’s short menu changes weekly and seasonally depending on what is available. Risotto con barbabietole ai due formaggio is delivered to the table as a shocking pink mound of arborio rice containing chunks of sweet beetroot, with subtle flavours that are the opposite of its garish appearance. Cosciotto d’agnello con ceci – braised lamb shank with red wine and chickpeas served with garlic and herb mash – appears more Scottish than Italian, but contains just enough Italian herbs and spices to draw out the distinction. You won’t find much in the way of pizza or pasta at La Concha – there’s a Pizza Express over the road for that. What you will find here is intimate fine dining with a distinctly Italo-Scots flavour.

Having made the transition from ordinary premises on the Southside of Edinburgh to the top deck of a floating bar and night club on the Shore in Leith, De Niro's enjoys one of the best sites available to Edinburgh’s busy list of Italian restaurants. Perched atop the 'Cruz' boat, it commands terrific views of Edinburgh's Shore area and maritime heritage, but tries a little too hard to be all things to everyone, with its cocktail bar, piano bar, restaurant and night club. That said, the setting and the view make up for the short-comings from the kitchen, and the service is very good. You can’t help but feel that the busier this place gets, the better it might become, especially on a sunny weekend or summer evening. The food tends to be on the deep-fried side, but the sleek and comfortable setting and good views smooth out any disappointment over this. Stick with the reasonable-but-ordinary house wine, and soak up what little floating dining Edinburgh has to offer.

With the HMRC’s offices sitting just across the road, a lot of suited types find their way into Cucina LC. The business-like manner of much of the clientele can’t detract, however, from a lovely little storefront café that’s rich in nice homely touches, from butterfly print wallpaper to a collection of candle holders lining the windowsill and some neatly filed cookery books in a corner shelving unit. Cucina LC means ‘Lorena Crolla’s kitchen’ (although the owner isn’t related to the Crollas of Valvona and Crolla fame), and it surely is a place of warmth and personality. It’s a little snug, true, and groups of more than four might even be cramped, but lone diners and couples will surely feel at home in the comfy leather chairs. The strangely marriage-themed sandwich menu (with all breads supplied by Stromboli) uses a mountain of free-range and home-made meat fillings, vegetables and dressings, while similarly well-sourced and presented salad dishes include a quiche of the day, salmon carpaccio, and meat and tapas platters. Substantial home-made soups, a small deli section and a breakfast menu served up until 11am round off a real hidden gem.

A brief sojourn to Italy last summer for owners Antonello D'Antonio and Carol Lawrie resulted in this elegant shorefront restaurant being transformed into an American-Italian style diner for a few months. But the chef-patron and front-of-house manager have now returned and the old-style menu, influenced by D'Antonio's roots in the ancient Etruscan city of Viterbo, has been reinstated. The blue neon sign above the entrance has gone – replaced by more subdued gold lettering – and the interior has also had a revamp, with neutral walls and simple wooden furniture giving the large, airy room a fresh, contemporary feel, although the modern sparseness perhaps belies the more abundant, rustic charms of the cooking. Insalata di mare is a generous tangle of squid, prawns and mussels, with a white wine and olive oil dressing that gives it a delicate, summery freshness in keeping with the restaurant's marine location, while sweet, plump parcels of ravioli stuffed with pumpkin and amaretto biscuits have a delightfully crunchy texture. Roast belly of pork is cooked Viterbo-style, stuffed with herbs and sitting in a puddle of fragrant juices. Desserts are a fairly simple affair, with the usual classic options to choose from, such as a fluffy, espresso-infused tiramisu.

In business for over a quarter of a century, Di Maggio’s is still scoring points with Glaswegians for its group dining ethos, comfortable seating and affable, efficient service. Nestled in the social hub of Royal Exchange Square (with great outdoor seating in the summer), this popular Italian-American themed set-up draws in crowds with its reasonable prices and a wide menu, but nothing too adventurous. Although most of the fare caters to typical local tastes – burgers, pizzas, steaks – pasta features strongly, too, favouring the traditional Mediterranean flavours of garlic, chilli, pesto and olives. A garlic mushroom starter comes on strong with a nasty industrial tomato puree taste, while the creamy pasta main is a little short on the promised greens. The chewy, spicy chorizo, however, snatches it from the jaws of disaster. A side of coleslaw is a home-made hit and works well as a complement to the steak main. A substantial serving, this thick sirloin is pleasantly succulent and comes with a side of fries and salad. Desserts are the usual standards – cheesecake, ice-cream, sticky toffee pudding. Eating at DiMaggio’s won’t provide any surprises but faithful to its regulars, it gives them exactly what they want in a bright, bustling, friendly atmosphere at decent, family-friendly prices.

Di Maggio's offers authentic, unpretentious Italian dishes with an American twist in a convivial, family-friendly atmosphere. This large East Kilbridge branch has a beer garden along with indoor and outdoor play areas for children. The restaurant menu includes pizza, pasta, burgers, grills and a great selection of Scottish seafood. Regular karaoke evenings.

Floor to ceiling windows, exposed stone walls and old-fashioned high-set gas heaters give this corner site on Argyle Street a sense of timelessness. Here you could easily nurse a daytime coffee, watching the world go by or enjoy a full meal from a menu ranging from wood-fired pizzas to more complex bistros dishes. The crisp thin-based pizzas are home made with a lingering smoky taste from the wood oven. Innovative toppings such as bresaola and baby spinach, or thyme-roasted butternut squash make these offerings far from the norm. Main course dishes are generous and might include gremolata-stuffed free-range chicken, with savoy cabbage, pancetta and Tuscan roast potatoes or interesting veggie options such as spiced chickpea, spinach and honeyed sweet potato with lemon, mint yoghurt and flatbread. The extensive specials board is worth perusing for daily-changing treats. A small but interesting range of dessert such as a rich Valrhona chocolate brownie with ice-cream, or an almond-topped Border tart add a perfect sweet finish to the meal. Close to the university and popular with both students and local residents including families, this neighbourhood bar and restaurant often requires a reservation at the weekends.

The arrival of La Fontana in mid-2006 continues the Mediterranean tradition for this prominent, but ever-changing Canonmills site. The neon 'Ristorante Italiano' sets the tone for a faux-brick bar and rousing Italian pop music. There are more than two dozen familiar starters, including avocado with prawns in a Maria rosa sauce, alongside the likes of mussels, garlic king prawns and a comforting seafood stew in a cavernous pot of tomato sauce. The substantial mains embrace all manner of chicken, fish, steak and veal dishes. Pollo alla vecchia Romagna arrives steeped with cream, mozzarella and Parma ham, and careful maneuvering excavates a slightly over-browned chicken breast beneath. A separate plate is necessary to accommodate chips and broccoli of truly Alpine proportions. Lasagna al forno is a safer affair, and there are other good value pasta and pizza dishes, with an option to mix half and half. Children are not forgotten, with smaller portions available and an inimitable Italian willingness to accommodate family dining. Don't expect to peruse the wine list for hours - Merlot, or similar, is the most detail provided. La Fontana is a no-frills Italian experience but nonetheless provides indisputable quantity and second-to-none hospitality.

The mismatched, down-to-earth interior adds to the charming welcome and is perfect for a quick meal, a romantic encounter or a large party. The homeliness of the dining room translates to the menu, which offers a range of truly authentic Italian cooking.Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

thoroughly recommend 

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 

I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening.

We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 

In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they.

The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers.

I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. 

I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation.

First came here 5 years ago food fantastic.Came to london with my husband for the weekend booked a table at this resturant and was very disappointed. Menu choice poor lasagne small and dry.Pizza tasteless I suggest you change your chef. We will not be back.

Avoid .Wetherspoons do better pasta To be honest Italian restuarants are die in Italy too. Very few places know what and how to cook.If you wnt the best its 60 pounds minimum per person in Italy. This place at 7.95 is like one night they get it together the next night no.

We eat here often, probably once a month, as it is near our office. There are endless alternatives but go back because it is like going to a local restaurant in Italy. It is informal and characterful. Food is a hobby and here it is simple food very well cooked. It is a place that encourages you to have a fun. relaxed, time. It's not Michelin star cooking but is all the better for it. It is only slightly dearer than a chain but much much better.

Italian Kitchen is one of my and my husband's favourite restaurants. He's Italian and I've travelled round the country many times, so obviosuly we're very picky about our Italian restaurants, but this is one of the best affordable ones in London.

The decor is quaint and charming and the staff are always friendly. I have always found my food to be delicious, be it pizza, pasta or a fish or meat dish. The wine selection is superb and I've never had a bad one in the many years I've been coming here, even when choosing from the cheaper end of the list.

And as for the reviewer below who complained that her pizza had a thin base and was 'greasy' with very little cheese, well Italian pizzas are made with a thin crust and plenty of oil. Many varieties don't include lots of cheese either! How that comment made me laugh!! If you want thick crusted, cheese-laden Amercianized junk food with pineapple on top, order a takeaway. If you want a delicious, traditional Italian pizza then visit a fine Italian restaurant, such as Italian kitchen.

I'd highly recommend a visit. 

At first it seems like a nice little trattoria in a busy part of town but whatever you do, don't be deceived.

The starters were tasteless and my pizza tasted like an oversize water biscuit covered in ketchup.

Add a dollop of insincere service and a dash of nasty wine and you'll get the idea. 

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Nice place and well looked after. Food and drinks were nice and we did have good service. 


Rose Pistola is a great restaurant featuring excellent California style Italian food.

Buca Giovanni is a very authentic Italian restaurant in a romantic basement deep in North Beach. It's always reliable with great food and has been around for years. A meal runs around $30 per person.

The Stinking Rose - Garlic to the Max - $25/person has excellent vegeterian pasta at low prices in a cafe style atmosphere. Located in the trendy Marina District. Italian food at 2027 Chestnut 474-3400 (North Beach location also). ($15 for 2). 

Il Fornaio is a California chain, but has great Italian authentic food in a romantic atmosphere. Excellent bakeries in the restaurant and in a nice park (Levi's Plaza). About $70 for two.

Caffee Macaroni is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach 

North Beach Restaurant

Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks). 

Venticello Restaurant - we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere... Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person.

Ti Piacera - Northern Italian restaurant recommended by a reader for great value.

Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro. Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu.

I tried a new Italiana restaurant in the Castro (on Market St.) Repastoria Satyricon. The food was great (I had a salmon and pasta dish and my partner had the polenta), the ambience was warm and cozy, and there was a decent selection of wines by the glass. Service was very attentive also.

we went and booked a table for 630pm when arrived was told would be another 5minutes. When was shown to table we were left for another half hour and noone spoke or looked near us got no drink nothing. we left and still noone, acknowledge us. we will not be going back was a disgracefully way to be treated.

I really enjoyed the food in Ask Italian. However I think they could do a better job at improving the overall dining experience in their restaurant if they improve the service.

In my last visit to this place I was surprised when the main course was served when we were not even half way through the Starters. When we got to the main course it was cold. My first reaction to that was - 'What a waste of good food!!'

I was just here at Ask Aberdeen on Friday 5 Feb and the food was great but the service was very very slow. The waitress did not seem to bother with us. We had to wait 30 minutes for our drinks, only getting them when I asked where they were. Then another 15 minutes for our food so 45 minutes for your food is ridiculous. We were laughing about it saying that we might get our desserts in an hours time. It did get tedious. Its fine if you have several hours to have a meal but do not go here if you ...

1st visit there was a good experience with freindly staff, tasty food and good size portions. One negative point was parmesan was not offered and had to be asked for but no problem with that. We are going there again this weekend so hoping wew enjoy it again!!!

I am shocked to see the bad reviews written about AskItalian in Aberdeen. I thought it was lovely. Our waitress was fast and attentive, the food portions were generous and the quality lovely. So much to choose from aswell! There were couples there, familys and young people, this restaurant will please everyone. Im going back next week for a friends birthday!

When looking upon the ASK Italian website to check out the menu and read more of what they offer, I spotted the company slogan of "Just Ask". After my experience, this slogan suits the restaurant perfectly....I felt I had to ask to place an order, had to ask where my starter was, ask there my main course was and then ask for the bill and wait for 20 minutes to get it...I think they have taken it too far!

The service was extremely slow, we waited 1 hour for our starters

Worst dining out experience ever, service very slow, order forgotten and re-taken an hour after arrival. Once food came all was sent back as either burnt to a crisp or not cooked through. Very shoddy and sloppy operation and I would most certainly advise against a visit.

21st November, i visited ASK with a group of 10 for my friends birthday. Within 10 minutes we were seated with our order taken. Food came within 20 minutes and was lovely and greatfully scoffed!!! Bill was just over 100!!!

The service was very, very slow....several other patrons were leaving without having eaten and without paying for drinks.

The "king prawn" starter comprised of more or less cocktail sized prawns and then the main course of Calzone....where to start?!? The dough wasn't cooked properly and was stodgy, the side salad was very poor and had no dressing, my partners Calzone had a mountain of Chillis on one side which made it basically inedible! After an hour of waiting, this was a disappointment!

Cocktail tables along the cliffs have full-on views of El Arco, making this the best place to toast to the sunset and another beautiful day in Los Cabos before moving to the candlelit dining room. Or merely remain outside, and enjoy dining alfresco. Italian Chef Emanuele Olivero has paid his dues in Los Cabos, with time at La Dolce in San José, at C in the Palmilla, and also at Pitahayas, before bringing his ideas to full fruition here at the Mona Lisa. The restaurant's four seasonal menus all depend on the ingredients that are in season at that particular time. How about ravioli filled with pumpkin, or La Paz blue crab covered with a cinnamon white sauce? Or seared halibut with crunchy polenta, sun-dried tomatoes, and asparagus tempura? Or go all out with the Grand Mona Lisa Tasting Menu, and try just about everything on their extensive menu. The restaurant is not really in the Corridor, but not really in town either; just a couple of miles up the hill—a short and relatively inexpensive taxi ride, well worth the trip for a sunset cocktail and dinner. Make sure you appreciate their Mona Lisa tile artwork both close-up and standing back a distance—an interesting optic illusion ensues.

I was there the first week of June with a group of friends and dining under the stars with the sound of crashing waves was an amazing experience. We were all very impressed with the food and the presentation. I met the chef (can't remember his name) who told us about his previous experience in a two stars Michelin restaurant in London. He prepared for us a special testing menu accommodating one celiac in our group.
I went back the day after with my wife as we had to have the Vulcano dessert one more time. Definitely a must have experience in Cabo.

I could not disagree with the Fodor ratings more. The setting for this resturant is beautiful sitting on a bluff overlooking lands end and the city of Cabo, however just a wonderful as the setting the food was polar opposite. four of us dined and each of us we disappointed with their meals, fish undercooked, veggies overcooked, poor service. Perhapos we were there on a bad night, but a place like this should newver have a bad night, you would be much better served eating at Mi Casa or the Office

Pane Vino’s Local Italian Restaurant
If you are looking for an Italian restaurant in Kirkcaldy there are little choices. However Pane Vino's is a good restaurant with a great menu. There is a different menu on in the day from the one on at night, along with a range of specials on during the week ...

Toscana, Italian Restaurant, Jakarta
If you are looking for good Italian restaurant in Jakarta, Indonesia, I suggest you to try Toscana Restaurant. It is located in Kemang Raya Street Number 120, South of Jakarta. Actually this location is known as a place where many expats would like to go there. This street is ...

Frantoio restaurant
Frantoio is an Italian medium priced restaurant located off of highway 101. I go to this restaurant about once every 2 months or so, it is quite good but I like to alternate with other good Italian eats. The best part about this restaurant is the olive oil, which is ...

Acqua Italian Restaurant
Acqua is an Italian restaurant on the upper West Side of Manhattan at 718 Amsterdam Ave, New York 10025, and they are open for lunch brunch and dinner. It is a neighborhood style restaurant, with small tables and white table cloths. The dark walls and ...

Soffritos Italian Restaurant
Delaware has few Italian restaurants that I would define as being outstanding. Recently, on Kirkwood Highway, not far from University of Delaware Campus, a new Italian restaurant called Soffritos opened, and it is by far the best Italian food I have had in this area. The atmosphere ...

Amalfi Italian Restaurant in Glen Cove
If you are looking for good Italian food, a nice time out in a casual setting, where the prices and portions are right, Amalfi in Glen Cove is a great choice. I think that the food selection is similar to any Italian restaurant you may go to, but ...

Sbarro Italian Fastfood Restaurant
First of all, let me state that Sbarro Italian Fastfood Restaurant is one of my absolute favorite restaurants for two reasons, because I love food and I love Italian dishes. Let me start by saying that Sbarro serves only hot ...

Diana’s Restaurant New Windsor NY
Diana's restaurant in New Windsor, NY offers the best Italian dishes at very reasonable prices. From appetizers right down to their desserts they're truly the best Italian restaurant in Orange County. There is a dish for everyone on their menu, including a children's menu. The food is ...

Verbano Italian Ristorante Honolulu
This Italian restaurant was not at all what we expected from the outside. I would have to say that this is one of the stranger dining experiences we have had lately. We had driven by this place many times before and saw the nice Italian looking green ...

Vincenzo’s Italian Restaurant Louisville, KY
Vincenzo's Italian Restaurant is one of the best Italian restaurants in the city of Louisville, Kentucky. It is a 5-star type of restaruant and is very impressive from both the outside and the inside. Pros: The food here is so good! I remember a lobster spaghetti dish ...

In times of fiscal belt tightening choosing where to part with your hard-earned cash in Limassol is becoming more like a game of Russian roulette. While tourist areas offer favourable odds of finding a candidate for Gordon Ramsay’s Kitchen Nightmares, it’s reassuring to know that there are restaurants that still manage to provide comfort and good quality food at reasonable prices.

Italian restaurant Il Sapore does exactly that; justifying its flavoursome name with some old fashioned quid pro quo by consistently serving up dining experiences surpassing those of many of its rivals along Ayios Tychonas’ tourist strip.

Years ago we were regular diners but having only eaten in the restaurant’s popular outdoor terrace in summertime it was a pleasant surprise to discover a cosy interior perfect for a cool spring evening. Tasteful and unpretentious, the decor achieves understated elegance with its obligatory red table linen, exposed brick and dark wood against walls adorned with oil canvasses depicting fruit and rustic scenes. Combined with the hushed chatter from a regular flow of customers, the restaurant presents a convivial, yet intimate, dining experience.

Service was brisk, and though our waitress was not overtly friendly she was nonetheless efficient, with two white rolls and a tray of tapenade appearing at the table within minutes of being seated. The dips - sundried tomato and olive – served with garlic and herb butter, were delicious, however it was disappointing they were not accompanied with authentic Italian bread.

I ordered a very nice house Chianti, albeit a little pricy at €5.98 a glass. The full bottle is a more tolerable €20.50, a price considered reasonable this far from Tuscany at any rate. Alternatively, the wine list offers an extensive and descriptive choice of Italian appellations from the Montalcino and Veneto regions alongside French, New World, Greek and Cypriot varieties.

Antipasti dishes are priced from around €8 a pop, and if memory serves their beef Carpaccio is well worth the price tag. We skipped appetisers after perusing the dessert menu, a fortunate decision as all patrons were given a complimentary bowl of celery soup anyway.

Although pasta dishes dominate, the restaurant also offers a good selection of fish and meat courses, featuring sea bass, beef, veal and Welsh lamb among them. It’s refreshing and a little romantic to see a menu written in Italian. We plumped for ‘Panzerotti ricotta e spinaci,’ or the less grandiose ‘Ravioli stuffed with spinach and ricotta cheese with cream sauce,’ and for me the almost poetic, ‘Risotto con salmone affumicato e asparagi.’

“It’s not fresh-fresh,” my partner announced through his first mouthful of pasta, drawing on years of experience quaffing the stuff in a city where deli-fresh pasta is as easy to buy as the morning paper and a pint of milk. Even so, the ravioli was mouth-wateringly good, filled with the perfect ratio of cheese and spinach and served with just the right amount of cream sauce without drowning out the combination of flavours.

Scrimping on ingredients in pasta and rice dishes is a common restaurant dodge, hence I was delighted to find every forkful of my generous portion of creamy risotto liberally scattered with deliciously-crisp asparagus and plenty of fish, cooked to a flawless shade of dark pink.

Both portions were more than enough and we managed half before requesting a doggy bag for the rest, immediately prompting motherly concern that we had found fault with our meals. Quite the opposite; we intended to roll out of the joint like over-stuffed barrels and were merely conserving our almost full stomachs to squeeze in one of the desserts on offer.

Il Sapore’s dolce temptations include perennial favourite’s tiramisu, crème brûlée and several varieties of pannacotta. Some were unavailable on the night, however it didn’t take too much persuasion to try the fresh strawberries served on mascarpone infused with Limoncello liqueur; a clear winner which left even the chocolate soufflé standing. Presented with more than a splash of artistic brio, the latter would satisfy the most discerning chocoholic’s cravings with lusciously rich chocolate oozing from a perhaps slightly too crisp casing but matched with a very passable vanilla ice-cream.

Overall, when compared to many of its local competitors, Il Sapore is the sensible grown-up on the block – less interested in an uber-cool image but infinitely safe, reliable and comfortable in its own skin.

My wife and I have been to Varano's a few times and absolutely loved it! We have always left feeling more than satisfied, both by the food and the service! The menu has a wide variety of appealing entree selections. One of our particular favorite appetizer's is the Winter Bruschetta...it is amazing! Fantastic restaurant, great food, great memories! 

My family comes straight from Italy so they are familiar with good Italian food. Also the Italian music in the background and the fireplace makes a warm, comfortable atmosphere for enjoying a delicious meal. Varano's catered our wedding and did an excellent job. Our guests raved about the food(especially the eggplant) and the presentation was beautiful. Thank you with a heart full of appreciation.

What Italian restuarant have you ever been to that only has 2 types of pasta and spaghetti isn't one of them? The spot and atmosphere is wonderful but the food is so-so. Not sure why they have such a great reputation when there are so many better places out there?!

I think as an owner of a restaurant, it is extremely important to listen to our customer's feedback. When I read this review, I was a little bit confused as to the point the customer was trying to make. It seems that the customer's complaint is based on lack of pasta on our menu. Here is where I'm confused, we have linguine, penne, whole wheat penne, fettucini, gnocchi, ravioli and lasagna on our menu available every day. Based on consumers eating less carbs in their diets, I feel we have a more than adequate selection of pastas on our menu. In addition, we feature nightly specials that include tortellini and squid ink pasta on a regular basis. I'm not sure what point the customer was trying to make. If I'm going to try and grow and improve my restaurant, I need feedback that is more specific.

The food and service are always top notch, but Roger seems to think he can be rude to anyone who brings up an issue.

We were having a wonderful dinner one evening, when the staff started vacuuming. I made a positive comment on how great the dinner was, but asked if they could wait until after we left.

He listened, but did nothing.

Another night, I was there when a customer was complaining. Granted the customer was a little rude, but Roger handled the situation by being ruder.

Whatever happened to customer service?
Why would he want to have them leave all upset and never return?

If you visit Wells and consider yourself a Foodie, you MUST try Varano's. My wife and I are here from Seattle and have tried it 3 times already. Everything we've had is awesome. It's got a very upscale menu, not your typical spaghetti and meatballs Italian variety (although I'm sure it's on the menu). We've eaten at some of the best Italian restaurants in Seattle and SF and Varano's is just as good.

Went to supper Aug 28th Been a regular for years, My favorite dish--- veal francaise. Saw it was not on the menu, waitress said no problem. Best veal dishes around.

We have visited Varano's many times during our trips to Maine. The sauce is great.
I often have simply spaghetti & meatballs. The veal parm is also a favorite. My husband tried the Braccioletinne and raved about it! Can't wait to visit again

My friend and I recently spent a long weekend in Wells Beach, and enjoyed dinner at Varano's. I travel to NYC twice a year, and Varano's equalled the best of Little Italy.

Charlie, the bartender in the downstairs bar, was a real gentleman. When I mentioned that my friend and I are soft spoken women, and that the dining room sounded like a high school cafeteria, he informed me that we could have a quiet dinner in the bar (full menu available) we opted for that choice. The bread was the best I have ever tasted, the wine list is vast, the food was exquisite. I live in NH, but would very willingly drive to Maine for the great food and service.

If you prefer a quiet meal to the din in the main dining room - by all means sit at the downstairs bar. There is nothing wrong with the upstairs dining room, it' a bit like being part of a large, noisy family. Normally, I would enjoy that, but I see my best friend three times a year at most, and we did not want to screech at each other across the table!

This is, in my opinion, the best restaurant in Wells.

The food was fantastic and the service was amazing. Lisa was our server and was extremely accomadating. We have to children and it was obviously getting late but she was extremely helpfulo. Lived in Boston for 4 years and the food was as good if not better. We will definitely be going back when frequently. The only two things are be prepared the wait can be long because they don't take reservations and I wanted a liqour similar to port wine and they brought Grappa. Grappa is definitely not anything close to port wine. Compliments to the chef and Lisa.

Being all adults we were able to eat downstairs at the bar where it was quieter and still had a full menu. The food is excellent! We tried 3 different apps and entrees and all did not disappoint. My only regret is that we did not go back again, but we will.....

July 11, 2009-Yet another fine dinner to be had at Varano"s--Excellent service-great atmosphere-fantastic food-and best of all great and entertaining owners!! My wife and I have frequented Varanos"s as often as time allows and enjoy every visit.

While visiting former neighbors now living in Maine we had the pleasure of eating at Verano's in Wells. Everything about this place is inviting vrom the greeting by the host, to the service staff to the excellent wine list , to the food. This is easily the equal of any restautant in the North End or New York. We'll be back.

The Bolognese sauce and white clam sauce are both fabulous - note, you can substitute sauces on dinners, such as having the Bolognese sauce on the lasagne. Delish!!! Their bread and dipping oil can be a meal in and of itself. Salads are fresh and dressings are homemade. Save room for dessert, such as the homemade gelatos - an Italian treat to provide the perfect ending to a fabulous meal.

Best Italian Resturant in Maine. Eat there often and always had a good meal. Great wine list and desserts. Love their Eggplant Parm.

I travel extensively for my job, and recently had the opportunity to dine in the North End of Boston. Although our dinner was satisfactory, it cannot compare to the entrees that I have enjoyed over the years at Varano's. Roger never fails to greet us at the door, and our favorite servers MJ and Lia take great care of us. Varano's is quite simply the best.

This is owned by the Varano family. This is one of many restaurants that are either owned or managed by this family. Some how they have gotten rave reviews and we are not sure why.

The food ranges from OK to just BAD! For example, we had the Cioppino, Veal Marsala, Linguini w/ Meatballs and Ravioli. My wife said the Cioppini was not that good, the veal was ok, the meatballs were bad, and my daughter hated her ravioli so much that she ended up eating the bread. We followed this by the dessert. The only edible dessert was the chocolate cake and cannoli. Avoid the strawberrys w/ marsala custard at all costs. It was the worst dessert we have ever had.

Service was OK! When the waitress was in the room, service was great. When she was not in the room, she was gone for a while and then service suffered.

What was worse is that the cost of the meal was $175 for a meal with two adults and two kids (7 years old and 4 years old). After $60 in coupons from the hotel next door the meal was still over $100. Not worth it!

many thanks to Roger,the chief, MJ and Mary for making our 50th
wedding anniversary a wonderful experience. the veal was "out-of-the-world" as always.this was the fourth anniversay in the last ten years
we have spent at varano's and enjoyed them all.

I am Italian so I know haha. It is a wonderful Italian restaurant. The service is excellent and the waitstaff is very professional and accomodating. I love the Veal Shank and my husband his old standby the Veal Parm. They always have some great specials also. Their Prime Rib on Saturdays nights is probably the best in the area besides Wells Steak House of course which the Varano Family also owns. My husband and I come from MA and we believe their Veal is probably the best we have ever had. It is consistantly tender and cooked to perfection. You will never have a bad dish here. The Calamari is perfect, Excellent wine selectrion. It can be a little noisy at times due to the acoustics which they have tried to remedy. But all in all you won't have a bad time. Enjoy!!

The place was VERY slow because it was the beginning of April. Waitress, excellent. You start with warm, delicious bread served with oil for dipping. We got a salad, balsamic vinaigrette, $3 and wonderful. My husband got veal parmigiana for $20 but the portion was huge. I got lobster fettucini for $28. The lobster was delicious but the sauce on the fettucini was not that flavorful. I would not recommend it for the price but would go back for something different. I think because my husband's was so good and the bread and salad ummmm. In general bring your cash and your appetite. Very good.

Wells is one of our favorite places in Maine and Varanos is a big reason why. Even if we aren't staying in Wells we go to Varanos, it is that good. The food is excellent and the service is outstanding. We were lucky enough to have MJ wait on us last night and she was professional yet fun. She could read that we were the type of patrons who enjoy good banter with our server. She recommended one of the specials which my husband got. We both loved it. It can be pricey but you get what you pay for. Quality food prepared right and the menu is extensive. I think the atmoshpere is nice as the views of the consrvation land are beautiful. We love Varanos!

Our first visit to Varano's restaurant was absolutely wonderful. It was the best meal my husband and I have had in a long time. We started off with hot bread with a dipping oil, minced garlic and parmesan cheese which was outstanding. We then ordered the Mussels as an apetizer cooked in white wine and minced garlic, delicious. We both ordered the Veal Braccioltine which was out of this world. We ordered it over a bed of linguine with a marsala sauce and mushrooms. We enjoyed this meal so much we went back 2 nights later and I orderd the same thing again. It was just as good as the first night. The service was also excellent and the atmosphere was warm, inviting and very cozy. We will definately be going back again this summer when we visit Maine again.

We just had Valentine's Day dinner here. The place was packed. We were disappointed that they don't accept reservations...they did take our name once we got there, (we wish we had walked from our motel room and put our names in ahead of time). We waited a little over an hour in the lounge...there was only one bartender for a very busy bar, something that the restaurant should have foreseen. Once we sat for dinner, there wasn't one disappointment where the food was concerned. Our waitress was a bit pushy but the food was so good, we didn't mind too much; the service and the quality of the food don't match up....(kind of a tacky waitress with beautifully prepared food.) Nor did we mind the prices-because every appetizer and every dinner at our table was thoroughly enjoyed. The sauce was excellent, the antipasto was a big hit, all the portions were generous and we were seated right in front of the fireplace. My mother is Italian so she tends to be critical of Italian Restaurants..She loved her spinach and tomato fusilli. We will definitely visit this restaurant again.

If you like authentic Italian food Varano's is the place to go. The menu offers a wide variety to choose from. My favorites include chicken orveito and lasagna. The portions are ample and you must try to restrain yourself from overindulging in the warm, crusty Italian bread thats offered first. We are locals and eat there a lot. If you are out for a special event or just a night where you didn't feel like cooking it suits the bill. The wine list is one of the best around and the wait staff is very knowledgeable about what goes best with your meal. I have never had a bad meal there. We have taken many of our friends there and all have thoroughly enjoyed their meals. Desserts are amazing too. They make their own gelato - it’s amazing! Many people ask us where to eat in Wells and we always Varano's!

Let's set the table. An expensive restaurant so my expectations are such. This means I expect quality food and quality service. The food was average. The mussles very good.
However, the service was terrible. We returned a glass of wine (mind you $7 a glass for a $10 bottle of wine) which still appeared on the bill. The owner was rude and his bravado was not flattering. If you price a restaurant as a quality, upper tier restaurant than the food and service both need to top notch.
The overall service was so bad, I could never recommend this restuarant. With so many other choices out there, I recommend finding another.

My husband and I recently moved to Maine from Mass.. we stumbled across Varano's and have been hooked ever since. We travel from South Berwick to Varanos at least once a month for the food, atmosphere, and a beautiful much needed night out together!

While traveling in Maine this summer we discovered Varano's Italian Restaurant on Mile Road in Wells. While over looking views of the marsh we enjoyed our tasty Italian food. I would definitely recommend the chicken brocolettini. And best of all the prices were reasonable.

Last night was the second dinner meeting I have arranged at Varano's, and I couldn't be happier with the food and service! Both times we were a group of about 20. The arrangements ahead of time have been no-hassle. It's a pleasure to do business with a restaurant who actually wants to serve a group this size. The food is authentic Italian, prepared superbly, served in a friendly, non-stuffy manner, with compliments all around from my guests. I highly recommend Varano's for a group such as a shower, rehearsal dinner, client appreciation dinner, or other get together. I will definitely be back and will continue to spread the word about Varano's!

My husband and I enjoyed dinner at Varano's in August. The service was fast and friendly with large portions. We enjoyed the food we ordered quite a bit and wouldn't hesitate to eat there again if we were in the area.

Lucianna & I have been fortunate to have enjoyed 4 trips to Italy.we have eaten in Pienza,Montalchino,Orvieto,Siena,Ravello & any many other large &small towns.That is why we truly enjoy our visits to Varano's over the recent years. Jay Sylvester's creations are superb!At our last visit this september we had the Fried Zucchini and the vitello Orvieto. It was as if we were back in Toscana.The super tuscan wine M.J. recomended was a perfect match to the meal and my martini was "Very Dusty".You can't beat a combo of Jay's wonderful food and MJ"s efficient service

My husband and I visit Wells every Fall. We always look forward to dining at Varano's. The food is consistently excellent, the service is outstanding, and the atmosphere make it truly delightful dining experience!

A longer than promised wait for a table, an incredibly noisy dining room and indifferent service clouded our experience at Varano's. And somehow $18.95 for a plate of linquine (overcooked) and sausage seems a bit pricey to me, especially when it doesn't include a salad. In fairness, however, my friends thought their shellfish over linquine dish was the best thing they had every eaten, regardless of price!

Bread and salads were excellent! The meals on the other hand were so so. The eggplant didn't taste like eggplant, too sweet for me? The ravioli in their cheese ravioli tasted like plastic? The sweet sausage in their sausage and pasta dish was old and lacked any taste? I was expecting fresh sweet sausages from the north end in Boston( as advertised) and got two old tasteless links that weren't even ediable.

My family spends the summer in Wells, we have the opportunity to frequent Varano's often what I can say about the resturant is every meal is consitiant, excellent ,fresh, the service is great!

The moment we walked in the restaurant and smelled the wonderful aromas, we knew we'd have a good meal. That, and the fact that right after we were seated at 5:30 pm on a Thursday evening, the restaurant was officially full and a wait began for a table. My husband and I both enjoyed our chicken dishes - the service was attentive and quick, and the food, plentiful and delicious. If we lived near here, this would be a place we'd come back to frequently.

Varanos is a great restaraunt. Waiting a while to be seated (50 minutes to be exact) But it was WELL worth the wait. Service was excellent as well as the food!

I am a 50 year old Brooklyn Italian who still lives in the neighborhood. I went to Varano's on 14-Aug-2008 while on vacation. Expectation was Olive Garden plus. What I received was one of the best Italian dinners I have EVER had. The bread was wonderful; this seems to be a theme in Wells restaurants. The fried mozzarella was fresh. The pasta, different than I am use to, but very good. The veal marsala, excellent. The sauces for both the pasta and veal were first rate. Service was also excellent

Was told there was a 40 minute wait for the table. The wait was exactly 40 minutes. It turned out to be well worth the wait.

As a local, I am always asked "where can I go for a good dinner" and I ALWAYS say Varano's! I would never recommend a restaurant I didn't like, and this is one of my very favorites. The food is delicious, the wine list extensive and very reasonable, and the service is consistently good. Without exception, everyone I send there loves it as much as I do. In addition to the great Italian dishes, their steaks and the haddock are delicious. Have a light lunch...you'll need the room for dinner!

My wife and I were taking a walk on the beach and while talking to others the subject of dinner came up and they could not stop talking about this place Varano's. So we made reservations and to our delight the food was not only really good, the service was outstanding, and the wine list was intense. We have been back and will be back again.

We visited again this year 2008 and have been going for a few years now. WE LOVE IT! BEG to have a Varano's in NJ. The
Spinach and tomato fuscilli was out of this world and the bread, OH MY died and gone to heaven with the Olive Oil, the waitress was even so nice to give me the name of the oil. Cannot say enough about this place. We ordered the fried Zuccini too and YUMMO! Worth every dime

I loved it - we had the fried zucchini for appetizers (my husband and I), and it's pretty much the best we've had. I loved my cheese raviolis and thought they tasted homemade, but my husband thought the gnocchi were frozen. Who knows. So I loved it, and my husband thought it was just okay. I'd go back!

I have been eating at Varano's since 2003. I absolutley must say that I have never been disappointed in a Varano's meal, ever. The food is always hot and fresh=great job!

The best part of Varano's is the service. There are so many nice restaurants from Portsmouth (where we live) to Portland (where my inlaws live) the reason we keep going back is because simply their staff is always amazing and always there! We have seen the same happy faces for 4 for 5 years now and know that this is exception to the rule for restaurants today.

We tend to stick to restaurants and servers that consistently give good service. At first, at Varano's, we would only have one waiter who seemed like he actually was there everyday. We never dined there without him. We were "forced" to try someone else last summer when he was on vacation and were told he trained everyone and they were safe. Since then we have probably had every waiter and waitress there and love them all. Flawless, attentive, personable service from everyone!

Some suggestions: funky martini menu, more types of pasta to choose from (like angelhair and bowties), pepperoncini for the antipasto. Mmmmm can't wait to go back

...is so good, it's like a cherub fell down from heaven and got struck by a truck, and I'm eating it right now.

Yeah....it's that good!

We just got home from Boston, and we keep referring back to our meal at Varano's as one of the most memorable moments of our trip! I felt a real sense of authentic "Italy" as we entered Varano's. It was a very inviting,warm and clean atmosphere. We were greeted with the best server that was very attentive to our every need, recommendations were very knowledgeable and sincere. I had the "must have' Ceaser Salad to start. It had the perfect amount of homemade "Varano's" special dressing that made you want more, then I went for the Seafood Stew "Cioppino", and was delighted even more. It had the sweetest lobster, and the freshest Seafood I have ever had.The portion size was perfect, as I "made" room for some "melt in your mouth",Tiramisu and felt totally full. The server had recommended the perfect wine with our meal that completed our awesome experience. I can hardly wait to go back to Varano's, it was worth the drive.

Great meal and view! Very prompt and attentive service from the host, to the server, to the busboy. The wine list is incredible and the server recommended two great bottles. My (Italian) grandmother would love this place (heck, my German Nana would, too) Can't wait to get back to Wells Beach and Varano's.
This is my favorite restaurant in all of Maine.

Food of good quality . However would like a choice of a few different "pastas" Spagettini /Angel hair I was told not available with my dinner choice. For me, disappointing. Prices are getting rather high on entres...and a house salad should be included. Hopefully when we return, I can choose my pasta. 4th visit .I'm an out of towner.

As someone who has spent the past 9 years living in Boston, I have come to expect to only find excellent Italian food at a reasonable price in the North End of Boston. Everywhere else that I have gone has either been underwhelming or at a much higher price point. Imagine my surprise when I had one of the best Italian meals that I had ever eaten at Varano's in Wells, Maine almost a year and a half ago. Everything that my fiancé and I ordered impressed us. The tomato sauce was among the best we have ever had, the chicken marsala was amazing, and the homemade gelato was to die for. Also, a hidden gem on the menu is the shrimp scampi appetizer, trust me. We were also absolutely blown away by the Italian Wine list, I can honestly say that I’ve never seen such an extensive collection of Italian Wine…WOW. Since that wonderful visit, we have been back to Varano's at least four times (its now a must stop on any visit to Maine), and have had a wonderful experience and meal each and every time. I would definitely recommend Varano’s to anyone visiting Wells, it’s ambiance makes it a wonderful place to go out on a date but friendly enough to bring the entire family.

When I ate my first meal at Varano's I knew that it would immediately become one of my favorite restaurants. Having grown up in an Italian family and spending most of my life seeking out the best Italian food in every city I have visited or lived in, I can confidently say that Varano's easily ranks among the best restaurants I've been to reguardless of price. The food, service, and atmosphere have always been fantastic. I would eat there daily if I could. (and I forgot to mention, the wine list is out of this world... and at a relative bargain compared to some places I've eaten in NYC and Boston.)

We went to Varano's on Valentine's Day, a night that tests the talents of restaurants. We had about a 20-minute wait for a table, which was to be expected. The downstairs lounge, where we waited, is not very welcoming. Our meal was absolutely delicious, although we noticed that Varano's has raised its prices and started charging extra for salads. Bread was yummy and served with a plate of olive oil for dipping. Service was prompt and friendly, and portions were generous. We're longtime customers and will return.

We love it here. It is family friendly. The staff is warm and welcoming. We have been there many times and never had a bad meal. The baked Ziti, Chicken broccolochini over penni pasta, and Lazagna are among our favorites. Dessert and a cappuccino are a must. Great wine selection as well.

As someone who has been going to Wells for the past 15 years, I've tried Varano's multiple times. There are much better restaurants in the area. The service has been terrible the past few times I've gone. The food has also gone down hill. It's inconsistent. I wouldn't recommend Varano's to people visiting Wells. The past few times I've gone, I've left saying I won't go back, and I didn't return this year on my annual visit to Wells.

After having a horriblely rude experience at Angelina's Restaurante, my family "settled" for Varano's. We were pleasantly surprised by how polite and responsive a host and waitress could be! The food was excellent. We will definitely go back! We visit Wells every summer.

I called up and talked to see if I needed reservations. The person on the phone was very friendly and said just come right over. We were sat immediately and a drink order was taken. This is when things started to go a little weird. My boyfriend noticed that our second glass of wine had been poured from a leftover glass rather than the bottle. We said something and had new glasses brought over from a new bottle. I could not tell if the manager was mocking us or was truly sorry, but he made us feel wrong about complaining. Our dinners were average, nice size, and a bit bland. The server forgot the shrimp for one of the dishes and they were dressed a bit heavy especially the caesar. Order the tiramisu and the espresson/cappucino-yummy. The locals were quoted to say that it was too expensive for the product and atmosphere... I probably would not go back.

A nice Italian Restaurant about 1/4 mile off Route 1 near the Hannafords supermarket.

Interesting moment with the hostess. As we arrived we asked for a table for 2, she said it would be a short wait as a table was just being cleared. 3 or 4mins later a 2nd couple arrived, asked for a table for 2, and were immediately seated. A little strange, however, I didn't complain as our wait was only a couple minutes more. Still not clear to me as to why we were made to wait.

The orders were served promptly and we both had very good meals.

Wait staff was attentive and polite. Atmosphere is pleasant and not at all noisy, even though the dining room was 3/4's full.

A little pricey but that should be expected in a resort/beach area.

This place is a little deceiving. We went on a Saturday night when thee was a wait. The waiting area is a cocktail lounge down stairs. This room has a cement floor, no table service and a young bartender who does not know too much or how to move very fast. The wait was short and upon being seated upstairs we found a wonderful Italian restaurant. The service was EXCELLENT. The oil for the bread was to die for and the meal was outstanding. We will definately return.


I went to this restaurant on Tues. 27 Feb. 07 on the recommendation of a kind person on this Board: a great thank you to that person. My friend Denise and I arrived at 5:30 pm., our coats were taken and we were shown to a table right by the fireplace. The restaurant is traditional in its decor (brick and wood, a chandelier, lit fireplace...) but not too heavy in feeling, and the service is friendly and informal (young Italian servers). The food was beyond our expectations.
The table d'hote runs from approx $20 to $40. The location makes it a place to go with a car (Jarry X Langelier, in the heart of St. Leonard); but the food is a dream come true! Excellent attention to ingredients, classic dishes prepared with care. Nothing innovative, or 'fun' takes on dishes, and thank goodness for that! Last night the table d'hote offerings were numerous, I'd say 12 choices including 2 fish dishes, a mixed seafood dish, steak, chicken, pasta etc.etc. The appetizer choices were terrific, about 8 diff. choices. I had the mixed seafood appetizer, Denise had the bocconcini and tomato. Portions were generous. Appetizers were served on a large dish, just slight smaller than the large dinner dishes in which main courses are served. Denise's appetizer was pretty much what it says: bocconcini and tomato, good & simple, but with generously doused with delicious extra virgin olive oil (green!). Her only slight disappointment was the lack of fresh basil. My plate was generous. Half of the plate was covered with smoked salmon slices, strewn with capers and very thinly sliced red onion, over a bed of very fresh baby leaves. The other half was a marinated mixed seafood (squid, bay scallops and small shrimp), but served without the marinade. Everything on my plate in fact was dressed lightly which I prefer! Lets the ingredients shine. It was delicious - picked up my fork and never put it down until it was all gone (oops!). (That could have been my meal & I would have been satisfied, but no way, not without trying all the rest...!!)
For my main I had veal scallopini with a vodka rose sauce (+other ingredients, can't remember) served with shrimp – so, three lovely pieces of veal, each piece topped with a perfect large shrimp, the meat generously napped with the (slightly citrus-y: orange?) delicious sauce. Denise had a chicken breast (I imagined it'd be boring - but no!), it came with an excellent wine & mushroom sauce (topped by a generous amount of thinly sliced mushrooms). All meals come with potato and vegetables, but this can be substituted with pasta & sauce of your choice (choices: fettucini, spaghetti or penne with meat sauce, rose sauce or alfredo sauce). Denise had the vegetables and I had the spaghetti with meat sauce (had to check out how well they made it!). What arrived on Denise's plate were perfectly cooked vegetables (each cooked separately and to just the right point): a generous amount of perfectly cooked asparagus, julienne of carrots (sounds boring, I know - but wow! maybe there was some red pepper in it, because it tasted so delicious) and potato chunks (perfectly cooked, a slight crunch on the outside). My spaghetti with meat sauce was superb, pasta done perfectly al dente and the sauce, oh the sauce.... Oof!
Then a small Dessert Menu was presented with about 6 choices. We both chose the tiramisu which was homemade and Denise deemed it the best she had ever tasted! Coffee or tea were also included. I spotted a gorgeous espresso maker, but I had already ordered tea (next time will order coffee, even if it's decaf!). The bill came out to 60$ for both of us (not incl. wine or tip). We were completely satisfied with the whole experience. All food was worthwhile. Excellent value. (I ended up taking the spaghetti home - it's too good to waste!) Service was excellent, friendly but not intrusive. Oh, and not pretentious in the least.
Additional note: Their pizza menu is extensive and I've read here that their pizza is excellent (I so want to try it). They do have a take out menu (it’s on line) and they do have risotto (porcini mushroom or mixed seafood). There's a wine list which I didn't check out (friend does not drink), but next time I'll partake of the wine offerings! I like to do an initial testing before bringing others to a new restaurant - this one passed the test with flying colours!


Sa Seada is an italian restaurant in the east part of Amsterdam close to the Amstel river. I remember this restaurant, because it has very large windows, which have been broken a few times in the last years. I hope not by unsatisfied customers ;-) When we arrived the friends we were meeting were already there, admiring the baroque decor. They had already ordered a bottle of wine and a bottle of water. When the waiter came to bring those, he told us the daily specials. I always think giving the daily specials orally is a bad idea, because I never remember them, only when something really stands out. Luckily a little later we got some menus. The specials were not in it, but there was enough on the normal menu. The menu has a lot of things on it, of course pizza and pasta, but also meat and fish dishes. The fish is daily fresh so it’s different every day. There is also a big selection of starters and if you can’t choose, you can take the big dish with a little of everything. I finally chose to have a pizza and a starter with mozzarella, ham and figs.
A little later another waiter arrived to take our order. He didn’t write it down, so it went wrong of course. First he came back to ask again which pizzas we had ordered. And when the starters arrived, brought by the first waiter, mine was missing. I told him that and a few minutes later my starter arrived with an apology. The food was simple, but quite tasty, although the lettuce was quite dry.
The service has Italian speed, because it took quite some time after the starters for the main course to arrive. One of my friends had ordered the fresh fish which was taken of the bone for you at the table. Unfortunately I think the poor waiter was not very experienced with it, because my friend still found a lot of bones in his fish. The pizzas were great though. Made with real mozzarella cheese! It was too much, because when I was half way through the pizza I was already quite full. The portion here are quite generous, so I think with sharing a starter and a pizza between two, you might still have room for dessert.
I was too full though to have a dessert, so I ordered a cappuccino, hoping for a real italian one. One of my friends did order dessert. It was ice cream mixed with prosecco wine and wodka. I think the waiter was a bit disappointed that only one of us ordered, because he had to open a bottle of prosecco just for my friend. The mixing of the ice cream and the booze was done at the table as well, in a big bowl and a whisk. When he was finished though, the other waiter had stil not arrived with a glass for it, so he had to go and get it himself. The cappuccinos were also adapted to the dutch taste, meaning a lot of milk foam on top of it. I guess you can only get a real cappuccino in Italy ;-)
Sa Seada is a typical italian restaurant with theatrical waiters and not too fast service, but the food is, although simple, very tasty!


Da Vinci's is situated at the junction of 15th street and the Boardwalk having phone number as 410 289 2974 at Ocean City. As it was very near to our hotel, we walked down to this restaurant for the dinner. This Italian
 restaurant serves the people visiting Ocean city since last 22 years. The restaurant has nice get up and decoration inside it. As soon as we entered the restaurant, we were taken to our table by the head waiter immediately and our order for the drink was taken. There were around 10 varieties of wines, 12 varieties of beer, and few hard drinks like Scotch whisky, Rum, and the Vodka along with many varieties of soft drinks. We ordered full wine bottle between four of us at the rate of around $25. When we studied the menus, we were amazed to see the varieties available here. The Accomenciarre items like Calamari Frita, Fried Mozzarella, Homemade Garlic Bread, Shrimp Cocktail, and Mussels Marinara are available at the rates of around $8 per order. Various spaghetti items are also available like Spaghetti with Meat balls, with Mushrooms, with tomato Sauce, with butter sauce, with meat Sauce, and with Olive oil and Garlic at around $12 per order. The baked classic items like Homemade Baked Lasagna and Garden Grown Eggplant Parmesan look really delicious and are served at $15 per order. The stuffed pastas in varieties like Cheese Ravioli, Lobster Ravioli, Veal Tortellacci, and Florentine and blue Cheese Ravioli are also served at the rates of around $18 per order. Wide selection of Pesce & Pasta is also available like Gamberi Marinara, Linguine Con Cozze Marinara, and Calamari Marinara at the rates of around $16 per order. Some of the Pollo and Vitello items like Chicken Francaise, and Chicken Parmigiana also look good. We ordered couple of orders of homemade Baked Lasagna, Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce, and the Gypsy Past, which was the Chef's favorite on that day. The special kid meals in number of varieties were also available at the rates of around $7. The special large party carryout menu with many different combinations of main entrée items was also available. The desert items like Cannolis, and Tiramisu was also available at the restaurant at the rates of around $6 per order. We ordered three portions of Cannolis as desert and really enjoyed it.
The restaurant has total sitting capacity of 90 people and it may become difficult to get the table immediately during weekends and there may be long waits during those days. The quality of food is also excellent here. The rest room facilities are also nice and clean here. Some sitting accommodation is also available outside the restaurant in front of the Atlantic Ocean. Only negative aspect of this restaurant is slightly higher rates for most of the food items as compared with other similar restaurants. However, if you really would like to enjoy authentic Italian food items, Da Vinci's is the place for you at Ocean city.
I strongly recommend the visit to this restaurant, serving authentic Italian food to all my AC friends and readers during their next visit to Ocean city.


With a name like "alfredo" it does not take someone too long to figure out what type of cuisine this restaurant serves. Here at Alfredo's Italian Restaurant, one can come expecting some absolutely delectable Italian food, and believe it or not these delicious entrees aren't going to cost one an arm and a leg. For those who enjoy veal dishes, an entrée labeled "The Godfather" is right up their alley, a dish in which three different veal pastas are there for the sampling and enjoying. Other delicious foods here at Alfredo's Italian Restaurant include the fresh seafood and the homemade, yes homemade, desserts. Come hungry, and Alfredo's Italian Restaurant will make sure that every one of their customers leave happy and content.
The atmosphere is something that Alfredo's Italian Restaurants has agonized very much over, and one is sure to see the fruits of the hard labors this restaurant invested into the setting. One will immediately be reminded of an Italian eatery the very moment they enter the door, and as the night progresses this mindset will become more and more concrete to them. Soft tan and cream colors provide nice contrasts to the darker wood furniture here at Alfredo's Italian Restaurant, and after one visit to this restaurant one will never look at Italian restaurants the same way again.
One will notice upon first entering Alfredo's Italian Restaurant that the atmosphere here is very traditional, and this traditional mindset should run throughout one's meal choices here. Go with the basics and order the fettuccini alfredo, and if one enjoys meat entrée they need to try out the veal parmagiana, a huge hit among locals. The meal portions here are very accommodating, but if one is still hungry and wants to order dessert, they need to try the cheesecake, hands down the best dessert at Alfredo's Italian Restaurant.


Alfredo's Ristorante Italiano (Italian Restaurant) is located in the Daytona Beach, Florida area. It can be specifically found at 4647 Clyde Morris Boulevard in Port Orange, Florida. Alfredo's Italian Restaurant is a
 great Italian restaurant to try if you are visiting the area and want some authentic Italian food.
It can be difficult to find a good place to eat when you are on vacation, or even when you live in an area. So many restaurants just seem to offer the same boring atmosphere, and the same foods. Service has gone down hill, and the prices have skyrocketed.
I have found a place in the Daytona Beach area that still exists with ambience, flair, attention to food value, and attention to service. This is Alfredo's Ristorante Italiano.
My favorite thing about Alfredo's Ristorante Italiano is the cello player and piano player that play while you are eating your meal.
At this restaurant you will find your typical Italian fare. However, the taste of the food is delicious! A real palette pleaser. The ingredients are fresh, and the spices complement the dishes well.
The menu is extravagant, meaning there is a wide selection to choose from. Some appetizers they serve include Fried Calamari (Calamari Fritti), Shrlmp Cocktail (Gamberi cocktail), and ham and mozarella sticks (Prosciutto e mozzarella). The price range for the appetizers range from $8 to $9.
Traditional pasta dishes include lasagna, fettucina alfredo, and spaghetti bolognese. I had the spaghetti bolognese, and it was very tasty! That is what I will have the next time I return. The pasta prices are $13.95 each.
In addition to pasta, Alfredo's Ristorante Italiano also serves steak, chicken, and fish. I don't personally care for New York Strip steak, which is the only steak they serve, but many people order it and seem to enjoy it. As for chicken, they have a breaded chicken parmesan topped with mozzarella that you should try, for $16. As for fish, which is actually seafood selections at Alfredo's, there is a choice of linguini with either mussels, clams, or shrimp or a combination of any of these. The average price is $18.


The Best Italian Food in the St. Louis Metro East
Tony's Restaurant is well-known as one of the nicest places to eat in the Alton, Illinois area. Their menu primarily consists of Italian food, steak, seafood, and chicken dishes, and comes highly regarded. They are most famous in the St. Louis Metro East for their pepperloin steak. Not having grown up in Alton, I had never been there before, but I'd heard only good things about it. I recently decided to try it out for myself and discover if Tony's Restaurant would live up to its reputation.
The level of service at Tony's was very professional. Employees were dressed well, helping to create the mood of the restaurant, and their hosts and servers were some of the best you will find in Alton or the Riverbend area. They knew the menu well and were able to answer questions about the wines and Italian dishes satisfactorily. Customers are treated as welcome guests at this restaurant. Valet parking is available, which is a rarity in Alton.
Also upscale for the Alton area is the atmosphere at Tony's Restaurant. Classic prints adorn the walls without being overdone as many chain restaurants are today. The lighting was dim but not too much so, creating a romantic mood. Outdoor seating is also available during warm months, but I was not able to enjoy this feature when I ate there.
One complaint I have about the setting at Tony's, which in all honesty I take issue with at a number of restaurants, is the noise level. During busy hours, it got very loud and became somewhat difficult to even have a relaxed conversation with someone sitting across the table. Also, it became somewhat cramped when the restaurant was full. However, the building itself is old and has a classy, antique feel (the restaurant has been operating in Alton and owned by one family since 1954)-which contributes to the noise level and cramped spaces but also adds a positive dimension to the meal. Overall, these annoyances were worth eating at Tony's Restaurant.
The cost of eating at Tony's is in line with the quality of food there without seeming unreasonable. As I was dining with a few other hungry people, we ordered the Combination Platter appetizer. This consists of chicken strips, mozzarella sticks, toasted ravioli, mushrooms, and zucchini for $9.99. I enjoyed the Alfredo with Broccoli for the main course, priced at $10.99. Everyone agreed that their meals were delicious, and with generous portions no one left hungry. One person commented, "I don't even like Italian food and this is great!" Another friend said that she had been to Tony's years ago and would be returning regularly as this visit had reminded her how good the food is.
Overall, eating at Tony's Restaurant in Alton, Illinois, was an enjoyable dining experience for everyone. The full menu with prices can be found on the Tony's Restaurant website. They are located in the Metro East area of St. Louis-a short drive across the Mississippi River from the City.


The Botanic Café has rapidly acquired the status of an Adelaide institution! Small, noisy, incredibly crowded, tables too close together - what is the attraction?
Simply, great food matched with attentive and caring service.
On our latest visit to Adelaide we started our meal with sugar-cured salmon accompanied by a small mound of chopped potato salad and some lovely greens. A good contrast of textures and flavours. A thick roasted fennel and potato soup drizzled with olive oil and freshly chopped parsley was almost a meal in itself. The roasting had intensified the fennel flavour and the olive oil provided an unctuousness that was welcome.
Bread sliced at a nearby bench was always available.
The highlight of the main courses was a quail and pea risotto with a subtle tomato flavour. The mound of perfectly cooked rice was topped by two quail legs and flakes of the breast meat were folded through the dish.
A lovely meal accompanied by the excellent Chapel Hill The Vicar Shiraz.
We look forward to our next visit.


This family-owned, family-friendly restaurant has been serving local Amsterdammers and lucky visitors authentic Italian pizzas, pastas and main dishes since 1978. The food is delicious and uncomplicated, with fresh, homemade ingredients -- just as Italian cuisine should be. The large corner patio offers idyllic outdoor dining in nice weather, in an area where tourists are the minority.
Le 4 Stagioni certainly doesn't need my suggestion to draw customers -- the Old South neighborhood favorite is full every night. The primarily Italian staff (who speak English, Dutch and Italian) will treat you like family, so much so that they might just point to your table when it's ready.
Sit back and take in the distinctive décor; features like the koelkamer (Dutch for "cold room") and tiled walls hint at its former life as a neighborhood butcher shop. The quartet of tile paintings in the long, angled interior depict the quattro stagioni, Italian for "four seasons" and the restaurant's namesake.
Look around and you'll see that the traditional Roman-style pizzas (€ 7.50 - 12.50) are popular -- and for good reason. The thin, crispy base comes loaded with tasty toppings ranging from the familiar mozzarella, tomato and basil (Margherita) to the decadent Campagnola with Bresaola (spiced, air-cured beef), mushrooms and Pecorino cheese. Vegetarians will love the Pappy with grilled zucchini and eggplant, or the Anouk with gorgonzola and spinach. Choose a calzone smothered in sauce if you want more homemade crust.
My favorite pasta is the tagliatelle with fresh salmon and spinach (€ 11.50), but I always check the chalkboard of daily specials for dishes like penne with wild mushrooms.
Main dishes -- like Naples-style king prawns and filet of deer with polenta and shallot sauce -- often change with the seasons. Again, be sure to check the specials di giorno, which usually include fish and meat/poultry. The traditional antipasti, salads and soups are also delicious, but if you save room for anything, make it the homemade tiramisu.
The 50-seat sidewalk terrace is wildly popular in summer. If you have to wait a while, order a glass of wine inside and find a bench out in the adjacent residential square.


This Fitzroy Street restaurant is firmly established as a Melbourne institution. In a city where Italian eateries are to be found on every corner, this place stands head and shoulders above its rivals.
We have eaten here many times. The service has always been first rate and the food has varied slightly with the changes of chef - always retaining the stamp of the owner. We remember the wonderful Italian truffles that are flown into the country by the restaurant. A risotto with truffles was one of the most memorable we have tried in Australia.
The restaurant also offers another attraction that you need to be aware of. It has, for a long time, offered a two course lunch with a glass of wine for $30. You can have either an entrée and main course or a main course and dessert along with one of the two glasses of wine on offer. This represents excellent value for money.
On a recent trip to Melbourne we decided to re-visit Di Stasio with the intention of trying out the lunch special. We started with a very simple, yet perfect bean and tuna salad that was reminiscent of a Nicoise Salad. Green beans had been lightly cooked and teamed with anchovy-draped hard boiled egg quarters and chunks of very good canned tuna. The other entrée that we chose (there was a choice of three dishes) was a stunningly complex dish of spaghetti with calamari. The accompanying juices from the braising of the calamari were rich and deeply flavourful. Main courses consisted of crumbed, deep-fried rabbit pieces accompanied by a nice potato salad, some gherkins and Italian preserved fruits and a dish that was the height of simplicity - a fillet of whiting that had been panfried and presented with a wedge of lemon and an unnecessary sprig of parsley. Both dishes were excellent.
Make sure you study the wine list here as there are always interesting Victorian and Italian examples to savour.


Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 



In the heart of the City, in a quiet side street in the Rothschild banking district, Swithin's Italian restaurant is a very special place to dine and entertain. Beneath London's pavements lie the old vaults of Sandeman's, where port was bottled for hundreds of years. These arching cellars are the setting for Swithin's fine Italian dining room. The bricked vaults may have an air of rusticity, but the leather banquettes, gleaming silver and crystal, and white linens create an elegant space for enjoying first class cuisine. The menu includes classic dishes, many with an inventive modern twist. Try starter of fillet of beef carpaccio on mixed leaves with lemon vinaigrette, second course of home made spinach and ricotta ravioli -- all the pastas are home made, with chopped tomato, butter and sage, main course of calves liver and bacon with sauteed baby spinach and mash, or one of the Italian veal, or a fresh fish dish. There are superb vegetarian choices, too. The mostly-French wine list has a few well-chosen Italians and a tempting line in champagnes. Very professional service.

This restaurant has a small bar at the entrance and an elegant dining room in a classic-style distributed on various levels. Contemporary cuisine with an Italian base is served.


Like a more sedate version of The Poseidon Adventure, the interior of Al Fresco resembles that of an upturned ship, wooden hull arching overhead, while discreet tables stretch out either side of the narrow aisle.

The upshot is a rather atmospheric, intimate little Italian restaurant, with more than a few surprises. The menu is a study in satisfaction, with a few twists on some standard classics. The duck risotto is rich and gooey, the pizzas thin and crispy, and come with real prosciutto ham – not turkey ham, not beef ham, not fish ham, but delicious prosciutto.

The bread is also worth a mention, and it arrives in three different varieties (the olive bread is sensationalwith an irresistible tapenade for dipping. The overall effect is of a restaurant that knows what it’s doing.

The service is decent, although not afraid of interrupting you in order to wave the world’s most oversized pepper grinder over your meal. The desserts are also impressive, with a separate ice cream menu for those still not convinced, although you can’t go far wrong with the dolce goloso, a platter of classic, tiny Italian treats.

Al Fresco is undoubtedly a touch of class, and well worth going down with the ship for.

There’s nothing particularly innovative about Andiamo!, making its overly enthusiastic punctuation seem a little unnecessary. What it does is serve passable Italian fare at a reasonable price. To be fair, the restaurant, hidden behind the Grand Hyatt’s indoor jungle, has more than a few well-executed staples on its menu.

The beef carpaccio, which is tender and pinkly fresh, makes for a solid opener (best to skip the scallops here, which are killed with a tad too much time on the stove. Pastas can be a bit stodgy: gnocci proves chewy where it should be airy, and an order of carbonara comes in a creamy block.

Fish, however, comes out fresh and flavoursome (the cod is always a good bet). Desserts, while satisfying, can also be a bit run of the mill. The chocolate mousse is appropriately creamy and made with decent-quality cocoa; it may not redefine the medium, but it does hit the spot.

This nicely located, first-rate Italian is spread out over two floors. Downstairs there's a small bar for an aperitif or coffee. Starters such as grilled artichoke hearts and antipasto misto, familiar home-made pastas, daily fish specialities and meat dishes such as oxtail filled with truffles are among the reasons to linger upstairs. Service is attentive but not intrusive. The third of Piero de Vetis' restaurants (after Osteria No.1 and Sale e Tabacchi) and definitely the best.


Delicious, thin-crust pizzas heated on the spot with fresh toppings such as tuna and rocket, spinach and white cheese, prawns, artichokes and chilli. This bustling Imbiss and café is run by old-school Italians who speak little German and pride themselves on classic dishes such as lasagne and a perfect tiramisu.

The punky staff at I Due Forni look more likely to throw you out of a club than tease your tastebuds. But in a city of cheap pizzas baked by Turks or Palestinians pretending to be Italian, the stone-oven pizza here is authentic and excellent. A bit pricier than elsewhere, a meal can still run under €10, and there are also daily pasta specials and a salad that's essentially a head of lettuce you have to chop up yourself. Their smaller, sister pizzeria is almost as good.

A small and unassuming restaurant away from the hubbub of Simon-Dach-Strasse, the 'flying table' nevertheless fills up with locals of an evening. Generous helpings of Italian comfort food, including gnocchi, risotto and, of course, the speciality thin crust pizzas, leave you with a warm, fuzzy feeling and a round belly.

The Dubai incarnation of this longstanding Milanese chain remains one of the city’s most popular restaurants.

Service is deft and speedy, while the setting is spacious and attractive, with wood floors and well-spaced tables. Bice plays on the theme of an Italian restaurant in an international setting, from, ‘Buona seras’ uttered by Asian waiting staff, to set-pieces such as giant pepper mills and trolley loads of olive oil.

Any suspicions about the speedy appearance of dishes are soon allayed; lobster carpaccio with caviar and artichoke heart – one of the signature dishes – makes a wonderful starter, and the pasta dishes are inventive too – try the black and white tagliolini with tiger prawns, asparagus and garlic oil.

Chocolate soufflé fondant heads up the desserts. The final touches are not quite up there with the best, and there is the definite sense that this is a chain restaurant – albeit a fine-dining one – but Bice remains one of the city’s safest bets for a good Italian dining experience.

We’ve found service over-attentive at Bellucci – probably because it’s normally frighteningly quiet. If you can forgive the flawed service, the food is pretty good. The minestrone soup is a densely populated broth of diced vegetables and plump beans, speckled with curved shavings of pungent parmesan, and the bresaola is curled in dark pink wisps of cured beef on a springy bed of green salad and is simply delicious.

The seafood tagliatelle is a fiesta of tangled green pasta ribbons, festooned with robust prawns, substantial squid rings, fleshy mussels and spidery baby octopus caught in a downpour of blustery tomato sauce. The lasagne bolognese is a comforting raft of softly layered pasta, beef and cheese that dissolves in the mouth in a flush of creamy indulgence.

It’s a puzzle why Bellucci is so empty when the food is so good, but the answer could lie in the desserts. The passionfruit sorbet is probably citrussy enough to be used as paint stripper, and the chocolate tart is as dry and chewy as a polystyrene model.

Skip desserts and you can have a fairly agreeable meal at Bellucci’s. 

With its blinding zebra-striped decor, this Italian eatery makes a refreshing change from the ‘Mamma Mia’ gimmickry synonymous with most Italian restaurants.

There’s not a chequered tablecloth or poster of a garlic-toting buxom woman in sight – in fact, the staff are kitted out in the most un-Italian fashion accessory known to man: baseball caps.

Unfortunately for Bella Donna, the modern take isn’t as pronounced with the food, which sticks to fail-safe pastas and seafood dishes, accompanied by salads and garlic bread. By and large, it’s a very decent choice for a hearty Italian feast to sustain you during a jaunt to the mall, but otherwise unexciting.


Bella Donna certainly seems more Italian than the rest of Mercato Mall. Meander over the bridges and past the fake pastel facades and to the restaurant. The sudden expanse of cream, black and chrome, fashionably angular furniture and pleasant outdoor terrace wouldn’t look out of place in Milan; sadly, while the surroundings may be stylish, the food is standard at best.

Even after a few hours’ hard shopping, it’s not worth filling up on the bruschetta, which is just tomato chunks on toast, lacking any of the oil or fresh basil needed to bring it alive. Dive instead straight into the carbohydrate fiesta that is the main course menu. The pasta seems to have lingered in the pan a little longer than it should have, so the chic white bowls of spaghetti and penne are no longer as toothsomely al dente as we would like. Rich sauces are generously endowed with cheese and cream, but overall a shortage of seasoning or fresh herbs leaves the dishes a little bland and it’s a feat to get through a whole portion. The pizzas are better with thin, crispy bases, fresh toppings and gloriously gooey cheese, but even they are searching for stronger, fuller flavours.

Among the desserts, the strawberry tart is an indulgent, syrupy patisserie-style affair, but if you’re just looking for an energy boost before a cinema trip or another onslaught on the shops, stick to a fresh smoothie – the berry affair is a wonderful purple concoction that manages to be fruity and creamy without being over-sweet. Or lose yourself in the coffee menu, which comes from the linked branch of Second Cup next door and includes every variety imaginable, including an excellent, seriously dark ‘house’ roast.

Bella Donna is an attractive and reasonably priced stop-off but not worth a special visit in its own right.

Behind the daft name and ordinary façade is one of Berlin's best Italians. Cornerstone dishes are malfatti (pasta rolls seasoned with sage) and strangolapretti ('priest stranglers' of pasta, cheese and spinach with slivers of ham), but it's worth paying attention to the daily specials too. Booking essential.

It's overcrowded, cramped and pricey, the service varies from rushed to rude, the music is irritating - but the pizzas are excellent and it's always open. 

The daily lunch menu is a great way to recharge after a morning of shopping or gallery hopping. Pick up a bottle of wine, some cheese, olives and salami, or ponder the panettones in the Italian import section, or simply grab a plate to go. There's space for 60 at the busy beer tables on the pavement.


You may have to wait for a table in this popular, friendly place, but the turnover's fast. Weekly specials are first-rate, as are the pasta dishes. Salads could be better and none of this is haute cuisine, but it's all well made, hearty and inexpensive.

They say you can’t be all things to everyone, but Frankie’s has a fair stab at it. Conceived as an upscale diner with an inclusive vibe – families are positively welcome before 9.30pm – Frankie’s certainly lacks the snooty feel of so many of its rivals in Dubai.

The resulting atmosphere is buzzing and informal. The menu is what you might expect of an Italian restaurant abroad, but with a smattering of invention (presumably from the repertoire of Marco Pierre White, the nominal chef behind the business.

Speck-wrapped scallops with white bean sauce makes for a perfect starter, while the standard beef carpaccio and rocket is made special with a dash of delicious horseradish mousse.

Here and there mistakes creep in (over-salted spaghetti alle vongole, vaguely tough veal ossobuco), though the standards remain pretty high right through to dessert – particularly if you remember that Frankie’s was conceived as a family diner.

Service is slick and snappy (despite the crowds), the tinkle of lounge piano is soothing, and the atmosphere is conducive to return visits. If prices were a little lower, this place would be a real hit.

The food at this child-friendly operation is fresh, simple Italian and moderately priced, and the setting is modern and comfortable. Crayons are available if the children want to scribble between courses, and the staff are as friendly as can be.

Allegria isn't so much a Cal-Italian restaurant as a bastion of traditional Italian cuisine that just happens to be located by the ocean in Malibu. The cooking is excellent and the setting is romantic (ask for a garden view when you book); all in all, it's well worth the 20-minute drive up the coast.

Recently renovated, Benvenuto offers quality, inexpensive Italian fare in its restaurant, a former recording studio (the Doors recorded LA Woman here). The front patio is great for people-watching. After dinner, head upstairs to the cosy cocktail lounge.

Calabasas is a bit of a backwater, but if you have business in Woodland Hills or the West Valley, consider coming here for the exceptional Italian food and seafood. The odd decor is left over from its previous incarnation as a Southwestern restaurant, but the sand dabs in lemon-caper sauce, the bison with port reduction and the pastas taste just as good when you're surrounded by Indian motifs.



If you're in the market for uncomplicated but superbly prepared Sicilian food served in an elegant setting, Celestino Drago would like to make your acquaintance. Drago's Pasadena location is famed for its excellent pastas, among them excellent pumpkin tortelloni with sage, but the menu also takes in other dishes. Reservations are essential.

Nobody goes to Dan Tana's for the cooking. It's not that the simple, old-fashioned Italian fare is bad: it's more that the old Hollywood atmosphere is wonderfully thick. The older servers can tell you what LA was like back when this food was cutting-edge, a time when they were much younger but Dan Tana's looked the same. It's favoured by celebs with respect for olde Hollywood (George Clooney, James Woods);

The best restaurant for several hundred kilometers. Zaitoun does modern Italian very well, with melt-in-the-mouth goat’s cheese, imaginative antipasto (like prawn and kiwi fruit), sizeable pastas and decent house plonk. The setting is low lit, and the decor a kind of modern European with Arabic hints. It’s very comfortable, and a welcome culinary surprise so far from the big city.

There aren’t too many establishments in the capital where Romanian cuisine thrives. Fewer still where Vlad the Impaler makes a personal appearance on the menu. This probably doesn’t help lure in the weak-stomached who might shy away from some of the gorier aspects of Romanian cuisine (stomach being one of those dishes on offer). However, upon closer inspection, Transilvania is a clean and well-appointed gaff with a menu that errs on safer and more familiar Italian territory. But when in Rome (or indeed Romania), it rather goes against the grain not to sample the local cuisine.

The platou romanesc is a typically sturdy example of cold turkey, salami and some of the saltiest cascaval cheeses you’ll ever find. The ostropel de puicupiure – slices of chicken smothered in a mild tomato sauce – is largely satisfying, but doesn’t stick in the memory long. It seems the dishes here are more practical than imaginative and the flavours might not be as bold as you’d expect. However, Transilvania’s novelty factor goes a long way in compensating for its shortcomings and is well worth a visit.

At the end of the meal, a cappuccino arrives decorated in so fine a cobweb design, it’s impossible to do anything other than sit and gawp. Anyone would be too frightened to disturb such splendour. Sadly, it’s the only point during the meal to express anything near finesse. While the food is capable enough at Sevilo’s, it’s never anything more than that, and you quickly start looking around for other ways with which to redeem your evening. Like taking a seat on the balcony, for example.

Sevilo’s stands out for having a city centre feel, positioned low enough to enjoy the enormity of the buildings around you, high enough to feel elevated from the pulse of street life beneath you. Unfortunately, the service is as frustrating as the meal itself, with waiters flapping about, whipping your plate away while you’ve still got food on your fork. It’s a shame because this modestly elegant restaurant looks like it could offer so much more.

Perhaps partly due to its slightly dilapidated surroundings, the Marina on Al Bateen Creek is starting to look a little underused, which is a shame as this pleasant restaurant could do with a little more patronage. Granted, things start picking up a little later in the evening, but the empty tables that greet you earlier on are a sorry sight. If that’s not enough to sour the atmosphere, the reams of bored staff lining the walls like mannequins most certainly will. Again, it’s a real pity as the food is recommendable and the location, while out of the way, makes for a very pleasing dinner. If decent pizza and pasta can’t be eaten overlooking a Venetian canal, then a quayside table, with sea and hull colluding beneath you, is a happy alternative. All in all, a decent trattoria, secluded and private enough for a romantic evening out, providing you can ignore the wallflowers.

Extremely popular with locals and expats alike, Prego’s can occasionally be difficult to book into, despite its impressive size. If you can, book a table on the terrace. Even though, at the time of writing, the view is obscured by the ongoing developments on Al Reem Island, it’s still a fairly chic place to be. Once the construction is finished, Prego will certainly be notable for its cushy setting. Keep an eye open for the one-off menus that turn up when a guest chef rolls into town; alternatively, make the most of the regular, well-thought-out options that currently prove so popular.

Prego does an especially naughty tortellini, and the ravioli, spaghetti and risotto are each served with an extra sprig of imagination that sets it a shoulder or two above many of its rivals, ensuring the reservations list keeps overloading. If there’s one thing that doesn’t do much for its reputation, it’s the desserts, but you’d have to be a glutton to get that far anyhow. Polish off a starter and a main and you’ll be more than satisfied, though getting through the front door again may prove a little difficult.

Politicians, stars and tycoons choose this animated, Tony Chi-designed restaurant. And they're easily spotted in the huge room of terracotta and white, dominated by an open kitchen. Jammed at lunch and dinner with devotees of its Italian food by chef Danilo, it has a long table for solo diners.


A Bangkok institution, run by 'celebrity' chef Gianni Favro. The airy interior sets a cheery tone for Venetian cuisine and specials. You leave talking about the food - like rabbit ravioli and risotto of artichoke and lobster - not the price.

Chef-patron Fabio Colautti has Gucci-ised a house to create this power restaurant and its wine bar, Glass. The glazed octagon is the zone to book. Decent wines by the glass matched with dishes such as fish and spicy sausage soup, and spaghetti with sea urchin and sliced bottarga.

Authentic Sardinian food and wines.restaurant and pizzeria menu avalaible to take away 7 days a week.at the deli:freshly home made bread and cakes,handmade pasta,selection of cured meats and cheeses, panini, salads to take away.Sardinian/English breakfast until 3.00pm every day


Excellent sardinian food in up and coming Victoria Park Village. It has a very good selection of wines and a menu that is short enough to assume that things are prepared fresh. Long tables result in a very family like atmosphere (albeit prob not too good for a romantic tete-a-tete in privacy)

The owner and staff give you the impression that you are dining in their kitchen in Italy and are passionate about their food.

It seems still like a foodie secret, probably due to its location away from the tube network (nearest station Bethnal Green) Worth the effort of getting there!

Verdict: Excellent value for money, unpretentious, and delicious and authentic food. More up in the league of high-end restaurants than your normal local Italian. Deserves more attention from outside the local area

Excelent food, nice and pleasant atmosphere, helpful staff!!




Su Sazzagoni is an Italian classic bar, an English coffee shop and a Sardinian delicatessen and trattoria. This concept being very normal in Sardinia and is now available here in Victoria Park Village. You can come for an English/Sardinian or continental breakfast, a panino or a slice of cake, cheese or bread. From lunch time until late we will offer cooked food to eat in or take away, the menu will change depending upon the seasons as it is important that all our ingredients are fresh. In the evenings we organize, what in Italy is called, “aperitivo party” you can come in for an early evening drink and will find a selection of appetizers laid out on the bar, for free. (small tasty bites) As in all Sardinian bar’s we will be selling a good selection of Sardinian wine by the glass and the bottle. All our wines can be purchased additionally from the delicatessen to take away.

During the week we will organize the “cena agrituristica” this is a special set menu which consists of about 10 courses and includes bread wine and coffee. This is very popular with the locals of Sardinia, and more and more the tourists are beginning to appreciate it.

Coffee Shop and Bar: Opens in the mornings until late. 7 days a week serving English/Sardinian & continental breakfast. Coffee, cappuccino, caffelatte, chocolate, juices, and a selection of cakes and Panini. From 6.30 until 7.30pm: aperitivo time- You buy the drinks, we offer a selection of appetizers for free.
Delicatessen: Open all day until late 7 days a week. Food always available: There is always a selection of the best quality salame, prosciutto crudo, ham, mortadella, dry and fresh Sardinian sausage, cheese, olives, pasta, ravioli, wines, champagne, olive oil, balsamic vinegar, and fresh homemade bread (which is prepared daily by our chef), and other Sardinian specialities. From 11.00am until late: there will be a selection of freshly cooked food to take away such as pasta, rice, meat, fish, vegetables, and the chefs speciality ‘Su Sazzagoni’ desserts and cakes.
Restaurant/Trattoria: Always open for lunch and dinner 7 days a week. On Monday to Friday we have the addition of the fixed price lunchtime menu, which includes a soft drink or glass of wine. Our menu changes regularly to ensure the freshest produce and the finest quality ingredients are used, many of which are imported directly from Sardinia. and always includes a selection of starters, pasta, rice, soups, meat, fish, vegetables and desserts.


Very good pizza, limited choice of toppings but good quality ; chorizo is excellent gets very busy at weekend but worth an early lunch/ queue



Oh wow. I hadn't heard of this place until this morning when one of my friends suggested it. We were there at around 11.35am and managed to get a table for the three of us with ease, however it soon started filling up. We were served, they only do black coffee (americano) but it was good coffee. The menu is short but sweet, with about 6/7 'set pizzas' but you can add extra toppings to any of them. They have a small range of salads, but don't do desserts or sides. The pizzas... I had a 'number 4' which is anchovies, capers, oregano, garlic and olives. It was delicious, I've never had pizza as tasty! It was a bit soggy in the middle but that just added to the general pizza-ness.
The atmosphere was incredible, there were good tunes on, the staff were rushing around, the chefs were shouting and there was banter between all the staff and customers. There were evidently some regulars there too, but based on the pizza we had, I'm not surprised!
It cost us £21 for 3 of us to have a lovely pizza each and one americano (the others had the free filtered water). I thought that was amazingly reasonable for beautiful pizzas.

I've just found out that they've opened a branch in Chiswick, so I'll be visiting them asap!




No doubt the pizza is great: tasty, fresh ingredients on a Sicilian-style thin base, yum. And on top of it, all ingredients are organic. Make sure you also try the apple juice, it’s the real stuff!

The atmosphere is truly unique: located in the Brixton markets with seating mainly outside (roofed over), whiffs of grilled fish from the restaurant next door sweeping past and the staff with their constant chatter a definite source of entertainment.

There are only two tiny points of criticism: the inevitable (?) waiting in line and once in a while pizzas that come out a bit too blackened.

Still, 5 stars it is without doubt.


I very much enjoyed myself at Amato's!! The cakes that they serve are delicious, and I cant get enough of them. If it wasnt for the new years resolution I would eat there every day!!



If you go to Al Fornos you can expect very friendly service and very big pizzas.

The staff can sometimes be friendlier than you might expect but that’s just because they’re Italian.

The small pizza is enough for a hungry person. The medium is enough for 2 hungry people. Don’t order the large if you’re sitting at a small table because you will have to move.

The pizzas are delicious and the banoffee dessert is fabulous.


Al forno is the best place to eat in Wimbledon. Simple as that. Located just off the middle of Wimbledon Broadway (near the theatre). This intimate restaurant simply buzzes with activity. The waitors are vibrant and friendly and will ensure whatever occasion you may be celebrating will be rewarded with good service (and often a shooter on the house if your in party mood!!).
The steak here is brilliant, the pizza’s are amazing (be warned - the medium size alone is enough to feed 2) and the food has been amazing every time I have eaten here.


Al forno is the best place to eat in Wimbledon. Simple as that. Located just off the middle of Wimbledon Broadway (near the theatre). This intimate restaurant simply buzzes with activity. The waitors are vibrant and friendly and will ensure whatever occasion you may be celebrating will be rewarded with good service (and often a shooter on the house if your in party mood!!).
The steak here is brilliant, the pizza’s are amazing (be warned - the medium size alone is enough to feed 2) and the food has been amazing every time I have eaten here.

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

The busy Grassmarket area attracts a mix of tourists, revellers and locals, and the same can be said of this family-run establishment. It claims to offer a true taste of Italy, and that starts from the moment you are greeted by one of a clutch of waiters with accents as strong as Gennaro's espresso. Tables in the front dining area enjoy the buzz of the venue, while the atmosphere in the rear section is slightly more subdued. Antipasti feature classic Italian dishes such as caprese, a whole buffalo mozzarella with the usual tomato and basil accompaniment, or select from a range of bruschetta – the capangnola is a delicious mix of peppers, olives and capers served cold on warm toast. Alongside pizzas and pasta, other traditional options populate the list of main courses, with vitello saltimbocca that ticks all the boxes, or a mildly spicy chicken diavolo. Meat dishes are served with chips and a rather limited salad, which is overpowered by celery. Desserts feature a chilled lemon or orange filled with ice-cream that is a refreshingly light finale, or you could go native and choose the tartufo classico, a zabaglione centre coated with chocolate that is loyal to its Italian roots.

A bright red sign pronouncing the restaurant's whereabouts cheerfully stands out amid Elm Row's other established businesses, beckoning in passers-by from the bustle of the town centre. The interior is dark and slightly worn by contrast, but incoming diners are greeted cheerfully by a moustached Mona Lisa and pleasant staff. Owner Vito Alongi can be seen flitting between tables, attending to those who need service or simply greeting regulars – of which there are many; a joking altercation over a favoured table is a pleasant sight. The lunch deal may be the reason for their loyalty, as three courses can be devoured for a meagre £5.30, and this menu is changed weekly. Log-fired pizza bases and unusual pasta shells in the main course stand out amid traditional toppings and sauces, although the dessert and starters are pretty standard. The a la carte menu verges on the large side, and can be a little confusing for those who find a wealth of choice impossible, though the dessert selection is a little average by comparison. Then again, after a particularly filling main lunch dish, dessert may be the furthest thing from your mind.

The Merchant Square might be as close as one can come to dining ‘al fresco’ in Glasgow, without being rained upon or bothered by passing locals. Diners can relax over a glass of wine at candlelit tables on the cobbled square. With the red-chequered tablecloths, professional waiting staff and light chatter from coming from the square, diners may be forgiven for thinking that they’re on the continent, instead of on Candleriggs. The menu bares the fruit of a typical Italian – pasta, pizza, veal, chicken and fish – but what the chef lacks in imagination he makes up for in skill. A generous starter of butterflied king prawns come bound in a deliciously sweet and chunky red pepper sauce, with rich flavours of garlic and chilli bursting through, served upon a sauce-soaked garlic crostini. A dish of mussels and king prawns tossed amongst fat strands of tagliatelle is bound in a rich, creamy sauce with sweet shallots and black pepper - a different take on the usual pomodoro sauce, but a satisfying one that works. And for dessert, a simple flavour of a traditional homemade cheesecake is livened up with a sweet, tangy forest fruit compote and lengthened with a hint of cinnamon.

The interior of Dunbarton Road’s Riviera Ristorante is decked out like an Italian courtyard. A beach-front is painted on one wall, as arched doorways and dark-wood panelling all lend themselves to the kitschy holiday feel. The staff are friendly and relaxed enough not to shatter the illusion, chatting happily to the customers and keen to give recommendations. The menu consists of Italian favourites cooked with an obvious knowledge of tastes and flavours. With a pre-theatre menu for just £7.95 for two well-cooked, high-quality courses, Riviera is surely offering one of the best early-dining deals the area has to offer. Starters include a rich and spicy penne arrabiatta, and fresh mussels cooked in garlic, white wine and parsley. The selection of main courses is equally generous - with around 15 options to choose from, it’s easy to see why Riviera has proven such a hit with locals.

Nestled on Causewayside, off the south-east tip of the Meadows, this humble little Italian restaurant produces dishes that are quite different – principally the ones that have a trademark shot of sambuca drizzled over them as they are served. The spirit is set alight so that the dish briefly blazes a brilliant blue. The liquor infuses into the creamy sauce, adding an unusual note of aniseed to contrast the flavour which works surprisingly well. Such special treatment is given to the split crayfish and the gamberoni (king prawns). Also available are various traditional pastas (as starter or main), pizzas and veal and chicken dishes. However, the fresh seafood dishes scream out as being the chef’s favourites and the ones to go for. Making good use of the top-quality Eddie’s Seafood Supplies nearby, the home-made lobster ravioli is scrumptious, and the tasty whole sea bream with a rustic cherry tomato sauce is reliably special. Opting for a coffee or a digestif is advisable as an alternative to dessert. A regular crowd of locals and students, who turn a blind eye to the desperate need for an interior revamp, come here to enjoy homely Italian food at reasonable prices.

Santini is the refined city cousin of Edinburgh’s other Italian eateries – a bit like up-market Milan compared to Modena or Messina. Don’t be fooled though; its crisp, smart, slightly clinical appearance masks the warm heart and generous disposition of an old family friend. The modern menu offers high-end versions of traditional pasta, risotto and pizza dishes alongside exotica such as papardelle di castagne al ragu’ di coniglio e funghi – thick ribbons of home-made pasta served with a buttery chestnut and mushroom sauce and chunky pan-fried rabbit. The secondi piatti are strictly meat and fish orientated, with beef and veal featuring heavily and salmon and sea bass making an appearance. The dolci are what really stand out though. Modern takes on traditional desserts such as tiramisu and panacotta sit beside specialities like a startling and moreish crema cotta al basilico – basil-flavoured burned cream served in an individual copper pan. The wine list is extensive and expensive, but cost appears to be of little consequence to Santini’s clientele of courting couples, business people and stout parents treating their grown-up children to a special meal. As Italian eating in Edinburgh goes, Santini is a little pricey by comparison, but worth every penny.

    
Qua may look like a trendy newcomer, but it’s actually a traditional Scottish Italian restaurant from a family team that have been behind the successes of some of Glasgow’s best-loved trattorias over the past 20 to 30 years. The extensive menu aims to provide simple traditional pasta and pizza dishes executed well, while also offering a more ambitious range of beef, veal and fish dishes. A trio of crostini made from homemade bread, are moistened with olive oil, and topped with sweet yet piquant roasted peppers, wild mushrooms and flavourful prosciutto, making a fitting and filling appetiser. The sogliola vellutata, a soft and moist fillet of sole resting in a pine nut-peppered puddle of sweet parmesan cream, is served with yielding asparagus spears and shows off the talent and experience of those in the kitchen. Coppa di Fiorentina, a decadent mix of homemade custard, cream, chocolate and liqueur-soaked sponge fingers is a substantial and decadent pudding, The stark modern architectural features of this corner of the Merchant City’s Todd Building have been tempered by the addition of natural wood and stone, and the genuinely friendly, attentive and efficient serving staff add to the relaxed atmosphere.


This impressive Merchant City venture models itself on the traditional enoteca - a wine bar that serves small plates of food, boasting an extensive wine menu with 24 wines served by the glass. The menu comprises Italian tapas-style offerings and has an almost overwhelming amount of choice. Each dish, no matter how small is individually prepared with time and effort. For instance, the fabulous porchetta arrosto (a generous six slices)is doused in a deliciously sweet herby gravy while an individual mushroom and spinach frittata comes served in a mini frying pan, full of the flavour of meaty mushrooms and fluffy eggs. Chunks of coarse, lightly spiced Italian sausage are complemented by grainy beans and pomodoro sauce. Light slices of potato gratin are baked to perfection, sweetened by fennel and served in a delicious mornay sauce, mussels are plump, juicy and simply tossed in garlic, cream and parsley and a very generous plate of fresh tuna carpaccio comes smothered in a vivid green salsa verde. The place has an air of buzzing sophistication: Frank Sinatra croons on the stereo and the immaculately presented staff are fast, friendly and efficient. The interior nods towards New York in its green leather booths and bar stools, with chefs bustling away in an open kitchen and floor to ceiling windows.

This takeaway is a real cheap and cheerful delight in an area where such things are not often appreciated nor expected. With over 20 pizzas on the menu, as well as a wide range of pastas, burgers and side orders, deciding what to have can be difficult. Considering a ten-inch margherita will only cost £3.50, why not get some penne picante on the side? For something a little different, but hugely tasty, try the 'hot and spicy' pizza, which is exactly as it sounds: an appetising combination of tomato, chicken, sausage, jalapeño goodness to brighten any tired palate. Spend over £20 and a bottle of wine will be thrown in for free, although reaching that mark may be difficult for fewer than four people!

The corner of the Merchant City bounded by Ingram Street and Albion Street has become something of an unofficial Italian Quarter in recent years, with half a dozen Italian restaurants vying for business within a stone’s throw of each another. The increasing competition does not seem to have diluted the Italian Kitchen’s popularity, however. Indeed it remains one of the most perennially busy places to eat in the area. The spacious interior is bright and contemporary, and alongside the excellent, fast-paced service it creates an unmistakeably urban atmosphere. A la carte starters range from the well-constructed ‘bruschetta Italia’ with tomato, mozzarella di bufala, parma ham and rocket, to the disappointingly heavy and slightly undercooked fried aubergines in breadcrumbs with tomato sauce. There is a good choice of pizzas and the pasta menu is particularly strong. Tagliatelle with peas and ham is rich, nicely cooked and full of flavour. As with all the pasta dishes, the portion is enormous. Meat dishes are dominant among the other main courses which include pan-fried veal cutlets with spaghetti and tomato sauce, as well as a selection of Scotch steaks. More affordable daily specials, which might include sole goujon or steak burger with game chips, are also available.

Marcella's Italian Bakery is cheeky little retro café/takeaway that serves some of the best, and cheapest, pasta in town. The interior is cluttered and confusing, but the food on offer makes up for the rather eclectic surroundings. The lasagne is one of the most popular dishes, but owner Angelo Gibilisco recommends the spaghetti bolognaise. With the perfect mix of tomato and mince, and a delicious and deliberate sweetness, at a mere £2.50 this dish is a must-try. And try, and try again. Also on offer are sandwiches, pizzas and a variety of sweet treats; the apple pie would tempt even the hardest of fitness fanatics. The best of Italian home-cooking, with no muss or no fuss.

Qua may look like a trendy newcomer, but it’s actually a traditional Scottish Italian restaurant from a family team that have been behind the successes of some of Glasgow’s best-loved trattorias over the past 20 to 30 years. The extensive menu aims to provide simple traditional pasta and pizza dishes executed well, while also offering a more ambitious range of beef, veal and fish dishes. A trio of crostini made from homemade bread, are moistened with olive oil, and topped with sweet yet piquant roasted peppers, wild mushrooms and flavourful prosciutto, making a fitting and filling appetiser. The sogliola vellutata, a soft and moist fillet of sole resting in a pine nut-peppered puddle of sweet parmesan cream, is served with yielding asparagus spears and shows off the talent and experience of those in the kitchen. Coppa di Fiorentina, a decadent mix of homemade custard, cream, chocolate and liqueur-soaked sponge fingers is a substantial and decadent pudding, The stark modern architectural features of this corner of the Merchant City’s Todd Building have been tempered by the addition of natural wood and stone, and the genuinely friendly, attentive and efficient serving staff add to the relaxed atmosphere.

Donna Perlo knows almost everyone who sets foot in her East Rochester restaurant. She greets most of her regulars as they come in, others she catches on her rounds through the busy dining rooms. A few stop to chat with her as they juggle jackets and take-out containers on the way out the door. But no one leaves Perlo's Italian Grill a stranger. If Perlo has met you once, she'll remember you. That's a real advantage at a restaurant that is so intimately connected to its neighborhood that almost all of the dishes on the menu are named after the regulars who either contributed the recipes, or order them again and again.
Open for a little more than nine years, Perlo's has the ambiance of a much older restaurant. Blocky and unassuming from the outside, the restaurant is a rambling string of oddly shaped dining rooms that divide what would otherwise be an overwhelming space into three rooms and a bar that quickly fill to capacity on the weekends. At times, it feels like you have found your way to a family reunion or church supper rather than a restaurant - everyone seems to know everyone else. There's even a karaoke machine in the bar on Friday nights so that folks can embrace their inner Frank or Babs.
The walls of the main dining room are lined with photos and memorabilia of Perlo's family, and most of the food coming out of the kitchen is made according to recipes passed down from them, including the restaurant's all-important red sauce. One of the indications that a red sauce is homemade is that it is slightly different every time you taste it, full of variations that can be chalked up to when the sauce was made, who made it, and what mood they happened to be in that day. For instance, on a recent Friday night, Perlo's red sauce had good body and a rich tomato flavor, but it was also entirely too salty, as if someone had perhaps dropped a bouillon cube into it. Three days later, the same sauce was much mellower and far better balanced, making it a good accompaniment to Perlo's lasagna, but still a bit too strong to warrant mopping up with a handy crust of bread.
That's a pity, because one of the things a slightly less aggressive red sauce would be perfect with is Perlo's stuffed bread ($8), an inspired combination of shredded pork, Italian sausage, and the beef used to flavor the red sauce baked inside a dense, toothsome dough. Reminiscent of the pepperoni rolls that I grew up with, this appetizer, named for John and Mary Pavone, was one of the high points of my first visit to Perlo's.
The lasagna ($11) was the highlight of my second visit. I've never quite understood who decided that a single order of lasagna should easily be able to serve three or four hungry diners, but his or her influence is clearly apparent at Perlo's - each portion is roughly the size of a patio paving stone. Perlo's combines the ground beef with ricotta and herbs (rather than separating them in different layers, as is often done), and it works well, allowing the juices and fat to mingle as the dish cooks. Where the red sauce had been too powerful with the stuffed bread, here it provided a good shot of salt and acidity to counter the fat and cream in the filling.
I found the red sauce at Perlo's to be a bit overwhelming. The marinara, on the other hand, is fresh, bright, and tangy -- good enough to warrant eating with a spoon. Full of chunks of sweet tomato along with just the right proportion of garlic, herbs, and salt, Perlo's marinara is good with just about anything. The marinara is particularly fine when served alongside the restaurant's superb arancini, golden-fried balls of rice bound with a creamy mixture of cheese, finely chopped prosciutto, and peas ($8). But it was also wonderful served on its own atop a plate of gemelli, or as the sauce on a plate of nicely fried eggplant parmesan ($10).
In addition to Southern Italian classics, Perlo's offers a full range of Italian steakhouse dishes, including veal, chicken, beef, and pork, as well as seafood. We tried the veal scallopine ($16), one of the simplest veal preparations, and found it a bit underwhelming for the price. The portion was very generous, but both the texture of the meat and the appearance of the pasta gave us the impression that the finished entr?e had been sitting under the lights in the kitchen for a long time before being delivered to us. That said, the marsala sauce was well made and the spinach at the bottom of the dish provided a nice bitter counterpoint to the richness of a sauce replete with butter.
Gordy and Star's Beans and Greens ($13), with both gnocchi and Italian sausage, were much more successful and entirely satisfying. The sausage added just the right pork and spice flavor to the buttery gravy in which the gnocchi, cannellini beans, and saut?ed escarole luxuriated.
My experience with Perlo's meatballs ($2 each) was distinctly mixed. I first ordered one as an accompaniment to a plate of gemelli with marinara sauce. The ball that I got was dense, somewhat dry, and a quarter of it was scorched and inedible. I pointed this out to Perlo, and she quickly swept the offending meatball away and brought back two meatballs in its place. The replacements were larger, fork tender, juicy, and very well flavored with distinct notes of pork, beef, and veal in each bite. If there hadn't been two of them, I might have had to order a third to see which of the meatballs I was served was an aberration. Happily, I think I can say with a fair degree of confidence that the replacements were the rule rather than the exception. Order them with marinara, ask for some extra bread, and you've got all you need for a truly satisfying supper.

One of the paradoxes of the economic meltdown is that, yes there have been restaurant casualties, but new ones  and more - have quickly appeared to take their place . Canary Wharf, the centre of international banking on the Thames in East London, embodies this phenomena. At least six new eateries have opened there in the last 18 months, including a Jamie Oliver, a sassy Mexican, a stylish Japanese and a down to earth British. These were all probably planned well before the credit crunch hit the banking sector, but the owners decided to follow through with their investment and hope for the best. 
However, the areas latest addition, Battery, has replaced an early victim of the financial turmoil  Ubon , the backwards sister of the much vaunted Nobu in Mayfair. A brave move then, by the INC Group, owners of Battery, who are seemingly in an expansive mood. 
An audit of the factors in Batterys favour looks promising. First, the building is iconic and impressive  a sort of slate coloured fortress designed by Philippe Starck  worthy of a James Bond villain. Second - it occupies an elevated , commanding position overlooking the Thames, giving diners a unique and beautiful view of the river and the city beyond, through splendid floor to ceiling windows. Thirdly, it is, of course, cheek by jowl with all those well heeled bankers and lawyers offices. 
Adjacent hassle free parking makes driving there a pleasure, and transport links are good too, with the Canary Wharf Jubilee line and the DLR stations both eight minutes walk away. For real style  diners can pop on the Thames Clipper  which starts at Embankment  and be dropped off virtually at the base of the fortress, and return home the same way! 
Finally, the number of full- time residents in the area has increased significantly in the last few years, and several more up-market apartment blocks are due to open soon, all a short walk away from Battery. Plenty of reasons then, to risk a glamorous new venture. 
So the scene is set, but what is on offer, and does it match the style of the building and that heart-stopping view? 
What is on offer is fine dining, and let me say immediately, it is very good. Described as Modern European, the menu works wonders with the basics  like lemon sole, cod, duck, chicken and beef  but of the finest quality, sourced in the UK. Refreshingly, the menu is not overwritten with subtexts  culinary descriptions are kept basic but inviting. 
However, this simplicity is deceptive, because chef Mini Patel works wonders with these good old clasics, delivering great subtle food  sophisticated, flavourful, well balanced and beautifully cooked. Patel began his career in the north of England , has had spells in France and the USA, as well as time in the Gordon Ramsey empire. He has emerged as a man in command of his ingredients  bringing out the best in them, and with a sure touch of his flavour combinations, without drowning whats at the heart of the main course  whether North Sea cod or Angus sirloin of beef. 
All this quality and skill does not come cheap. Starters are between 8 and 17
(passing over the caviar at 85!) , and mains are between 22 and 30. All side dishes are a reasonable 3.50. 
Over a glass of excellent Pannier house champagne (9), to start we chose ballontine of Cornish mackerel - with bayonne ham, tomatoes, crab with basil dressing (9), and tian of Dorset crab(13) with crme fraiche, avocado puree and confit tomatoes. Both delicate, subtle and super-fresh. The only minor complaint came from my colleague  the crab contained too many tiny shards of shell. 
The wines by the glass are well chosen and we had a clean. crisp 2008 Domaine Daniel Dampt Chablis (9.50) with the mackerel, and a superb aromatic 2008 Pouilly Fume from Jean Pabiot & Fils (11.50) for the crab  both suggested by charming and reassuring French restaurant manager, Yannick Chaloyard 
Main course choices were wild halibut, pan roasted in cumin, with braised veal belly, tempura spinach, apricots and harrissa spice (27) and duck breast (26). On the menu, the latter is described as Reg Johnsons Goosnargh duck breast . According to Yannick, Reg is Britains biggest and best supplier of fine, naturally reared ducks and chickens . It came with caramelised fois gras, creamed sprouts, carrot puree and medeira jus. 
Both proved to be beautifully cooked and the combinations inspired. Fine dining indeed! Side dishes of French beans, and chips  cooked in beef dripping, were both spot on. 
My colleague stayed with the Pouilly Fume for the halibut, and I went with a 2004 Chateau Cissac Cru Bourgeois Medoc ; pure velvet!(11.50). 
The wine list is impressive if expensive  a bottle of Montrachet Grand Cru for 360 anyone, not to mention the Chateau Mouton RothSchild at 1,461! But there is a good well priced selection of whites - from 15.50 ( a Chilean Sauvignon Blanc) to a Pinot Grigio at 27, and reds - from 19 ( a Sicilian Nero DAvola) to a Bourgone Pinoy Noir Burgundy at 27. 
Battery has a good cheese board but we settled on puddings  a Tonka bean pannacotta (9 )featuring Yorkshire rhubarb ( the best!) and ginger snap tuille, and warm Agen prune and almond tart (10), with amaretto cream and Earl Grey tea jellies. 
The pannacotta was a perfect finish to a dinner  foamy with a light acidic touch from the rhubarb contrasted with the crisp brandy snap. The generous portion of tart also had a perfect light touch, with a crispy outside, but the prune inside was a little dry. The cream and tea jellies helped to cope with that shortfall! 
Battery deserves to do well, as its offer  served in a chic dining room in calming dark chestnut wood, pale green leather and globuler hand made glass lights, like so many Saturns floating in space - is first class. So is the river view  especially at night, culminating in a panorama of Londons ever increasing sparkling office towers. Both inspiring and romantic  thus fit for all occasions! 
A Battery club is in the thoughts of the owners  which could add further cachet, especially for locals. Before that, there is a need for better signage. Entry is through an electronic gate into a neat garden, next to the Four Seasons hotel. Once into the garden, directions to find the ground floor entrance and lift are thin on the ground. Persist, the effort is well worth it. 
Camden Town is a pretty cool area, what with the famous market and the music venues plus its position as a residential area of choice for creatives and the media set. Yet, until recently, it has not given birth to any destination restaurants. Gilgamesh and York & Albany have raised the bar in the last few years, but surprisingly Camden still trails behind, say, Clerkenwell and Shoreditch as a place to go to eat. 
In consequence, the arrival of a classy looking newcomer is welcome news. Caponata has a promising profile  Italian with strong Sicilian leanings - it consists of a ground floor Osteria and bar with a crisp, smart first floor ristorante. But what is a real plus is that, with considerable architectural panache, the owners  two sisters and their husbands  have combined their love of both food and music by creating a purpose built music and arts space. Named The Forge, reflecting the fact that a blacksmiths workshop once stood on the spot. Rest assured, this is not a twee themed space, it is just a name; the whole complex  restaurants and art space - is a brand new building, replacing a long established Camden eaterie  Caf Delancy  which was three interlinked terraced houses. 
We chose to eat in the intimate upstairs restaurant where the menu looked imaginative, and the ambiance is casual chic. The pale walls are strangely reminiscent of 1960s stripped pine, whilst the room is modernised by lots of crisp linen, good tableware, elegant dark seating and subtle subdued lighting. One side also overlooks the glazed courtyard area which will come into its own in summer. 
There are half a dozen antipasti and pasta choices, and seven secondi dishes  all unpretentiously but temptingly described. Artichoke tart with taleggio fondue (8.50) and Tuna with a cumin and pistachio crust on a bed of rocket and crispy fennel with lime dressing (9.50) were our antipasti choices. The first had a delicate flavour which was somewhat overcome by the pastry  good as that pastry was - and the more-ish fondue element was sadly in short supply, as was seasoning.As a result, bland was the word which best describes the result. 
The wonderfully tender Tuna was nicely complemented by the fennel with lime dressing and judged a success, but more could have been made of the wafer thin cumin and pistachio crust without overpowering the fish; here its timid application made little impact. We chose two Sicilian wines by the glass. A Mandrarossa 2008 Merlot with the tart ( 4.50 by the glass, 16 per bottle) was pleasantly rustic , and a robust white 2008 Fiano with the Tuna (4.50 per glass, 18 for a bottle). 
The pasta course was another game of two halves! Our choices were Ravioli filled with broccoli, dry currants and goats cheese on a pine nut cream. (9), and Fettuccine with hare and crispy fennel ragout (10). The ravioli was a beautifully flavourful assemblage, full of subtle contrasts which would also make an excellent main course ( 4 extra). The fettuccine was a disappointment. It suffered from a lack generosity - needing more hare than the sparse little pellets served, and more fennel than the three or four small pieces atop the pasta. In short, the whole dish needed intensity. As the Americans might say easy on the pasta, heavy on the hare please! 
Time for the Secondi. I chose the grilled fillet of venison with braised turnip, Marsala poached pear and balsamic vinegar zabaglione. (16). My colleague went very Sicilian with saddle of rabbit filled with black truffle, leg confit and sauted chard (16). We shared a side dish (all side dishes are 3) of green vegetables with garlic. 
The so called Big Plates on the menu are divided into lamb dishes and chicken dishes. From the 11 lamb dishes on offer we chose Adana Kofte Kebab (7.25), and were not disappointed, although the other items were equally seductive; all costing less than 10 
Both were very well conceived combinations. The rabbit was properly cooked, moist and made totally delicious by the truffle stuffing and the garlic tinged succulent chard. To go with this, our ever attentive but unobtrusive waiter suggested a glass of the fragrant, sophisticated 2008 La Sagreta Bianco - a blend of Grecanico, Chardonnay and Viognier. 
The venison - medium to well done as requested - was very tender and surprisingly gently flavoured, and was superbly partnered by the clever balsamic zabaglione, the just right sweet poached pear and the soft subtle turnips  a much under exploited root veg. It was my bad luck that this superbly authentic, carefully balanced dish was spoilt by being served tepid. I could have sent it back of course, but I am averse to warming up complex dishes; something always gets lost. A pity, but the sophisticated essence of this fine dish shone through. 
The green vegetables  courgettes and beans - with garlic were perfectly cooked, but the garlic was too subtle for us  that is, it was almost non existent! I only half blame the chef. Even in these days of international travel, many UK restaurants find that they need to tone down the garlic and seasoning for British palates. Shame on us. As one of the charming and concerned managers - Gianluca Dimartino  confided,  recently we have had complaints that we used too much garlic in the dish, so we reduced it!. 
The wine? I stayed with the rustic Sicilian Merlot; fine with the venison. 
The dessert menu also limits itself to six options. How Sicilian these are I am unsure, but the home made gelati and sorbetti (5) and the artisan cheeses with chutney and biscuits (9) are a sure authentic bet! We chose Caramelised pear on almond shortbread, lavender sauce and camomile ice cream (6) and Rice cream semifreddo with passion fruit ice cream (6). The fate of both turned on the ice cream. In the first, the camomile subtlety was overpowered by the other elements, and in the second, the gorgeous passion fruit ice cream dominated the bland slice of rice cream, making the latter redundant! 
My feeling is that Caponata is still settling in. Some dishes need balancing, and some need more courage. The basis is there for a really good experience, and the menu is one of those where you want to try everything! My colleague and I both had some previous experience of head chef Danilo Barbagallos skills. First, at the restaurants opening party ( canaps only) and, by chance, the place was chosen by my colleagues company for their Christmas lunch, after which the food drew many favourable comments. So I shall return when their music programme gets started. I want to try that seared seabass, fennel gratin, anise sauce and parsnip crisps! 
We went a la carte, but Caponata  named after a traditional Sicilian aubergine based dish  offers great value set menus, one course 9, two courses 15 and 21 for three. Brilliant  especially when you see the range of inventive choices available. 
Ambling down Northumberland Avenue on our way to the Jubilee footbridge to Waterloo, I spotted a new bar restaurant, which from its name, Obika, I assumed to be Japanese. My error was further reinforced by the sight of a very modern looking bar complete with barristas wearing bandannas. However, when I looked at the menu outside, I saw that it was an Italian restaurant whose decor and modus operandi was Japanese influenced. But I must point out, we found no trace of fusion in the cuisine which is mainly from southern Italy.
The name of Obika is apparently the Neapolitan dialect for "here it is!" And it specialises in mozzarella handmade in Italy, certified by the regional authorities and sent over by courier three times weekly. We shared a mozzarella tasting plate with three different mozzarelle, one of which was afumicata, or smoked. My favourite was Burrata, very fresh and creamy, coming all the way from Puglia in the deep south of the country. Another house speciality is the selection of hams, salami and other cold cuts which included the best mortadella I think I have ever tasted. We also shared the cold meat tasting platter, which included ham, prosciutto, salami and the aforementioned mortadella. These came with excellent bread with olive oil and balsamic to dip into.
We then tried a little pasta, a simple but delicious ravioli in sage butter, and also the baked aubergine cooked in tomato sauce and parmesan, which was really yummy. These authentic flavours of Italy were washed down suitably with glasses of Barbera dAsti from Ca dei Matt, and a very nice Chianti from Conte Placido.
We finished our meal with a shared tasting platter of desserts, which included a slice of Torta Caprese, that wonderfully dark Neapolitan chocolate and almond cake. Even the tiramisu made its mark on two relatively jaded palates! A glass each of Limoncello was like an encore and it tasted as though a dozen lemons had been squashed into the liqueur glass.
Obika is open daily from 7 a.m. for breakfast, until last orders at 10:45 p.m. Don't miss their traditional aperitivo evenings when you can enjoy fine wines with complimentary nibbles, every Friday between 5:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. sounds like a perfect way to end the working week.
Obika is at 7 Northumberland Avenue, just off Trafalgar Square. 
Website: www.Obika.co.uk, telephone 020 3002 7400
This is the second Obika to open in London, the first being in Selfridges department store. You'll find branches in Rome, Milan and Turin, where I imagine the concept might appear quite exotic; next year they plan to open in both New York and Kuwait. 
Modern, smart and sexy. Thats the vibe at Alloro, a highly sophisticated Italian restaurant in the heart of Mayfair. With its patrons (who mostly appeared to be testosterone filled Italian businessman) looking like theyd stepped straight from an Armani advertising campaign. The interior is simple and contemporary, with clean lines and a use of wood throughout, whilst half etched front windows add disgression and privacy. Tables are well-spaced with starched linen tablecloths, fine-stemmed wine glasses and comfortable chairs. There is also a busy and bustling bar at the front which was packed to the gills on the night of my visit.

In the kitchen is Turin born Executive Chef Daniel Camera, who perhaps does not have the notoriety of some of the more celebrated Italian chefs residing here. However, judging by his busy restaurant and ex-pat clientele, I expect it is only a matter of time before he is revered.
As it was such a hot and humid evening a classic Bellini (fresh peach juice and champagne) was the perfect aperitif. Our dining experience then commenced with a little pre-starter, a refreshing summer gaspacho served with fruit that at once cooled and refreshed our palate. This came with accompanying cheese and herb breadsticks, artistically wrapped in a linen napkin.

The menu is divided into four sections. I began with a salad of crayfish with asparagus and avocado. It arrived picture perfect, with plenty of fanned crunchy asparagus spears, concassed tomato flecks, creamy avocado and juicy crayfish. The accompanying dressing being vigorous on the palate. This I soaked up with plenty of speciality breads that were regularly replenished. My guests pan-fried goats cheese looked mouth-watering. Presented on a large glass platter it was almost seared on the outside with a soft, luscious interior. Sitting on a bed of fresh spinach leaves, he said the softness of the cheese was interspersed with a textured crunchy middle whilst tiny caramelised onion shards added bite and texture.

Throughout the evening the sommelier helped guide us through the extensive wine list which is renowned for having some of the finest selections outside of Italy. We began with a slightly fizzy and flinty, Cayega 2007 Roero Arneis Tenota Carretta Piemonte 35.00. A easy drinking white wine with earthy overtones and a rich and lush interior. 

Skipping the pasta dishes for fear of overload, we moved straight onto the main course. I had a plate of monkfish, served pan-fried with chorizo and sauted potatoes. Served with a saffron mayonnaise that decorated the plate like a piece of modern art. It was a hearty dish, the monkfish holding its own against the strong flavours all vying for attention on my palate. 

My guest ordered one of the specials of the day. A duck breast cooked exactly as hed asked came perfectly pink and thinly sliced with accompanying grilled figs adding texture. A rice salad with copious nuggets, including chives, tomatoes, rocket leaves and orange zest added a summery freshness. To drink, we had a bottle of Guidalberto 2006 Cabernet Sauvignon San Guido Toscana, 65.00, which proved a robust full-bodied accompaniment.

Struggling to find room for pudding we shared a hot chocolate fondant with its delectable lush gooey interior, the rich chocolate and cold vanilla ice cream pairing superbly together. Served on a rectangular frosted glass plate it came pleasingly served with berries.

I thoroughly enjoyed my evening at Alloro. Its the sort of restaurant one usually cant find outside Italy. Serving authentic cooking in fine surroundings resulting in a memorable experience.
A stones throw from the Old Bailey lies Terranostra Cucina Italiana, an authentic taste of Sardinia in a setting as far removed from that island as one can imagine. The interior is unpretentious with simple dcor, deep polished wood tables and chairs and modern art on the walls. When we visited, it was packed with the suited-and-booted brigade taking a very long lunch. There was also an extremely large party made up totally of Italians, which had to be an encouraging sign. The dining room is cozy; my only grumble being the tables were a little on the small side. The ambience is warm and lively, so not somewhere to come for an intimate chat a deux - more a place to enjoy with a few mates while joining in the general merriment. However in the evening I suspect the atmosphere would be more laid back and quiet.
To begin, a large basket of tempting breads was offered, including the Sardinian speciality - Carta di musica - a form of exceptionally large and crunchy and crispbread. The menu has plenty to entice. We shared a stunning fish platter for two to start (talleri di pesce) which included calamari, raw tuna with caramelised onions and balsamic vinegar, punchy marinated anchovies, cured swordfish and smoky infused salmon. This was a pleasure to eat; served artistically on an oaked marbled platter Every bite was sensational, with each pungent flavour holding its own on the palate.
To follow, again there was plenty to tempt. I tried the linguini, served with plenty of fresh crab and a touch of chilli which added a bit of a welcome kick. The escalope of veal was cooked perfectly, being full of flavour with a pepper and lemony bite. It arrived seared and glistening with an appetising aroma and was served with perfect sauted potatoes and spinach. There are plenty of well priced Sardinian and Italian wines to choose from. We tried a rich and oaky Sardinian Grotta Rosa 2005, very reasonably priced at 20 a bottle.
For pudding there was a short but tempting choice of Italian favourites. We shared a warm chocolate and almond cake which arrived in small diamond slices on a glass plate accompanied by fresh raspberries and vanilla ice cream. Other desserts included tiramisu and panna cotta.
Terranostra Cucina Italiana is very popular and its easy to see why. It provides unpretentious but seriously good cooking using quality ingredients, served up with genuine hospitality. And its reasonable prices makes it stand out from the crowd in an area with little else to entice.
The Brunello Restaurant is somewhere not just to eat, but also to experience, due to the sheer opulence of its interior. 
Dining here is a bit like being on a stage set of a very exotic theatre production. 
The very large open plan room is spacious and welcoming with an atmosphere of indulgence. The dining tables are large with deep comfy armchairs to settle into, the room is predominately black and gold with stunning black Murano glass chandeliers throughout. Jazz is played at a very low volume and overall a sense of occasion and formality have been installed. Other interesting design features include a wall of tumbling water and a beautiful large screen filled with retro style black and white photographs. But would it all be a triumph of style over substance?
Champagne seemed to fit the occasion so we began with a glass of Moet & Chandon Brut Imperial non vintage - delicately crafted with very fine bubbles - the sign of a good quality champagne, our appetites nicely whetted for a spot of lunch and a perfect way to spend a rainy May afternoon in London. 
The food is Italian and in the kitchen is Head Chef Stafano Stecca, who has worked in some of Italys finest restaurants, and of late has crafted his techniques in some of Londons best dining rooms including Al Duca, Rosmarino and Zafferano. There are two menus - a la carte and a set menu. The set menu being particularly good value at 20.00 for two courses or 24.00 for three courses including a glass of wine - perfect for the ladies who lunch who were predominately the other diners in the room. We decided on the a la carte menu and I began with Linguini with prawns and courgette flowers, which was fresh tasting, buttery with a good flavour. My guest chose the cream of pea soup with dried bacon and fresh goats cheese, saying it was rich and velvety and pleasing.
To follow I chose the mixed fish and shellfish tempura (fritto misto) with tartare sauce and chilli honey, it had a fragrance as if it had come straight from the sea, attractively served on a rectangular plate with a good squeeze of lemon, it was a plate of delicate flavours nicely offset by the punchy dipping sauce. To drink I had a glass of Italian Chardonnay which was fruity without being too heavily oaked. My guest had a plate of roast fillet of beef with foie gras, celeriac mash and Brunello red wine sauce. He said the meat was beautifully tender, served slightly pink as requested with a slice of delicious foie gras and a very pleasing jus. To drink he tried an eponymous red Brunello which he said was rich and luxurious on the palate - a fine accompaniment to the meat. We finished by sharing a very light strawberry and raspberry mousse with fresh fruit and strawberry coulis.
This is the ultimate romantic lunch or dinner a deux destination, where the substance does match the style! Brunello provides luxurious and calm atmosphere that in a city as busy as London, can sometimes be hard to find.
Turbo penne arrabbiata, proper posh truffle chips! Frankly, the cheeky-chappy tone of the menu at Jamies Italian is so chirpy it makes me want to bang my head on the table.
Perhaps Jamie Oliver has spent so much time in school canteens recently hes started treating his customers like kids? Well, why not go the whole hog and install a bouncy castle here in Docklands, at his chains first proper London branch.
Buttock-clenching irritation at forced jollity aside, Jamies Italian is perched handsomely above the dockside, its glass-walled space gussied up in a not unpleasant funky-for-an-airport way (well, this is Canary Wharf).
Green plastic cafe chairs, 60s-ish hexagonal floor tiles and the odd polished tree trunk make for a relaxed decor that stops the right side of playschool.
As for the menu, its an adaptable beast. But while theres plenty for light nibbling, fairly small portion sizes mean youll need to order four courses if youre hungry.
Food took too long in coming, but I went on day one so perhaps this will improve. And when the food does arrive, its not bad at all.
A plank of meat antipasti  a wooden block perched on two tins of tomatoes  came scattered with chewy salami, soft drapes of mortadella and a fantastic sliver of melting San Daniele proscuitto.
A dollop of chilli jam on a mini slice of pecorino was too sweet, but clearly some love has been put into getting the selection right.
Despite Jamies Italophile ravings, my pappardelle in a sausage and wine sauce was just (only just) the wrong side of al dente, but the dish was gutsy and rich. A second course of lightly battered soft-shell crab with mayo, served on paper, was fresh and crispy, if oily.
And from an Italian dessert list of ices, panna cotta and tiramisu, my dollop of vanilla ice cream with a shot of hot espresso was a fine, if unremarkable, example of its kind.
Not quite a perfect meal, then, and at 35 for four humble courses and a glass of wine, it hovers around the middling mark. But if the food doesnt bear comparison with some of the best independents, or Olivers Fifteen, its still got the edge on other Italian chains.
Way better than Zizzi, less boring than Carluccios might not be a billing to set the pulse racing but, given the pleasant vibe at Canary Wharf, it may still be enough to make Jamies Italian a success.
We ate at Carrabbas on a weeknight, early. Within an hour, the place was packed, and stayed that way. Its a large restaurant, with dining areas separated by partitions, and tables in the bar. The walls are pale in color, decorated with framed prints and photos, mainly of families, and homey Italian touches. Tables and chairs are dark wood, and the lighting is dim. The tables are set with large pitchers of olive oil. The waiters  the staff looked to be pretty large  have their timing down. Ours was familiar with the menu, answering questions and making suggestions. When we told him we were not in a rush, we were not rushed. 
The menu at Carrabbas is divided into starters, soups and salads, grilled items, pasta specialties, family classics, and pizzas. Nightly specials are printed out and inserted in the menu. We ordered drinks, and had a look. 
The starters include two calamari dishes, which meant I had to get one, called calamari Ricardo. My friend ordered shrimp scampi. That night, the kitchen was offering the squid in a half-portion. Our waiter said the half was a hefty serving, and Im glad I didnt get the full-size.
The squid had been deep-fried crisp, and dressed with an Italian pepper and lemon butter sauce, which cut through the rich, tender seafood. Eight garlicky shrimp, large and tender, were served in a sauce with as many slices of buttery grilled bread. We were already working on a basket of warm bread and seasoned olive oil dip, but the scampi sauce called for grilled toast. We barely finished both starters, but we did it.
At my suggestion, my friend ordered pollo Rosa Maria  grilled chicken breast stuffed with fontina cheese and prosciutto, topped with sliced mushrooms and basil lemon butter sauce. I had tried that, and some of the other specialties, but this time I decided to go traditional. I ordered spaghetti with tomato sauce and grilled sausage. 
In the interim, the waiter brought salads  Caesar for me, a mixed green salad with creamy Parmesan dressing for my friend. I enjoyed the Caesar, especially the anchovy-rich dressing. Of course, both of us were completely full at this point, but business is business. 
The entrees came. My friend was very pleased with the juicy chicken, which tasted as good as I remembered it. The basil lemon butter sauce is fairly light (in taste, that is, Im sure it packs plenty of calories), and the pasta on the side had a slightly spicy tomato sauce. My spaghetti came in a high-sided bowl  protects the shirt, you know  with two plump, densely meaty links of sweet fennel sausage and a tangy tomato sauce. There was still bread, but we needed to have dessert.
Other regular menu items, both starters and main dishes, include mussels in white wine, bruschetta, fried zucchini, mozzarella marinara, salads with grilled seafood, grilled salmon, chicken and veal marsala, veal piccata, chicken parmesan, chicken Bryan (with goat cheese), lobster, chicken or cheese ravioli, lasagne, grilled steaks, traditional or make-it-yourself pizzas, and assorted pastas with meat or seafood. The specials menu that night offered pork chops Marsala and trout.
We had four desserts to choose from: cannoli, tiramisu, a chocolate fudge brownie, and a butter cake with fruit and whipped cream. We ordered the last two. The waiter thoughtfully brought two forks each, for sharing. The mousse-filled brownie was flavored with Kahlua and a thick, robust chocolate sauce. The butter cake was both rich and light  Italian design  and filled with fresh bananas, strawberries and pineapple. My friend took much of the brownie home, along with half her chicken. 
I have eaten at Carrabbas restaurants several times, in Montgomery, Panama City, and now in Sandestin. Being part of a chain of restaurants has advantages and disadvantages. Carrabbas seems to have made the most of the advantages  consistent quality, well-organized service, and reasonable prices. The most expensive item on the menu (beef tenderloin) is $22, and many of the entrees are in the mid-teen price range. And the food? Its good, and theres lots of it. 
Let's just get to the pasta. There's no way around it. Tavolata's happy hour features it in all forms  spaghetti, rigatoni and linguine. And gnocchi, both flour and potato versions.
Sure, some rebels in stilettos made a stand recently, ordered a happy-hour salad and picked at some marinated olives, only to succumb once the waiter delivered bowls of pasta with seafood, meatballs and Italian sausage for others nearby.
Tavolata's happy hour will do that to you.
Chef Ethan Stowell serves dinner at the bar. Here comes the baked Gnocchi alla Romana, six big polentalike gnocchi, fluffy and buttery, covered in gooey mozzarella, with tomato sauce and Parmigiano-Reggiano.
Tasty, too, were the cheesy chicken meatballs. We're in familiar Stowell territory now. Spaghetti and meatballs were a happy-hour stable at his downtown restaurant Union, too. Too bad these dark-meat chicken meatballs were too delicate to pair with the thick, al dente spaghetti.
A break from pasta? A plate of bruschetta topped with smoked mackerel and aioli, the better tuna salad. Heartier, too.
Wait, we're not done. A bowl of rigatoni with spicy sausage and fresh marjoram, good and simple. Not overcooked or over-sauced.
This is happy hour, almost like family-style. This is pasta made fresh in-house. But happy hour is only at the bar. Little elbow room and space to spread out the dishes. Stagger the order. Stay a while. They don't eat that fast in Italy anyway.
IT APPEARS I may have been a little crotchety over the past couple of weeks. Am I becoming a grumpy old man? The sort of person who goes through life looking for faults and then revelling in finding them, rather than relishing the joy of finding a great new feed?
Thankfully, "no" is the answer, as a night at Assaggi proves. This suburban Italian has been open three months but is already rammed to the gills each time I pass, and with good reason. It is a predictable but warm space: all polished-board floors, wooden cafe chairs and butcher's paper over white-clothed tables, crowded around a high wooden bar.
Behind that bar is a white, igloo-shaped dome and tall flue of a wood-fired pizza oven. And also behind the bar stands owner Antonella Vizzelli and two waiters puzzling for a few minutes over just how to make the "Italian spritzer" we've ordered from their menu. What arrives is an appealing mix of orangey Aperol mixed with white wine. It's one of the few service blips in an evening of regularly replenished water and thick regional accents from the young, largely male, floor staff.
The menu divides neatly between dishes from that pizza oven and from a kitchen out back. From the latter comes a big plate of springy gnocchi, richly sauced with a Napoli that's stringy with melted mozzarella. The edge of the plate is sprinkled with parsley, like a picture from a '70s dinner party cookbook. It's big enough to share as an entree, with the only regret that this means you can't try the hand-cut house-made straccetti dressed with a spinach and cream sauce and chunky pieces of Italian sausage, or the signature risotto of porcini and truffle cream, from the slightly retro kitchen menu.
This is something we redress with a main course of old-fashioned veal scallopine; the thin slices of tender meat are slathered in a super-rich sauce of reduced cream, pancetta and mushrooms. On a cold night it's like a big warm hug and makes the prospect of returning for chilli mussels enticing.
It is, however, the pizza that reassures me I'm not turning into a grump. I feel my mind make a joyous mental skip when I see it - and then it starts turning slow cartwheels when I bite into a thin, crisp and slightly chewy crust that benefits from the occasional dark toasty spot on its base. It is topped simply with nuggets of fresh fig, melted fior dilatte and restrained dollops of gorgonzola that highlight the sweetness of the figs and milkiness of the mozzarella without dominating, as this blue so often does. Delicious!
This special has a strong supporting cast, with classics such as a capricciosa of mushrooms, olives and ham off the bone on the pizza menu alongside - for the more adventurous diner - a couple of calzone with the most perfect "Aus-taliano" names like the Freak and the Fantastico. These folded dough envelopes are filled with melty fior dilatte, mushrooms and, respectively, spinach or olives and ham.
To finish, there are pretty star-shaped dessert pizzas best reserved for those with a super-sweet tooth. Far more adult is a tiramisu that's all bitter cocoa and heady liqueur-soaked savoiardi biscuits, all rather wonderful with a jolt of espresso, as the perfect conclusion to a rather good meal and a welcome suburban Italian arrival. As they say in Italy, "Andiamo!" ... Let's go!
I've heard of hockey players going into the restaurant business, but news jockeys? 
When Tony Parsons ? the award-winning, top-rated supper-TV news anchor in Canada ? announced in December that he was leaving Global British Columbia after 35 years of service, he conducted the interview from his new venture, Poor Italian Trattoria Ristorante. 
Perhaps he should have kept his day job. 
Mr. Parsons is a financial investor, not a managing partner. Thus, hes probably not to blame for the restaurants dated dcor, misleading menu descriptions and mostly disappointing food. 
Yet the venerable broadcasters presence is definitely felt from the moment you walk in the door. Theres his authoritative headshot, staring right at you from the dust jacket of his recently published memoir,A Life in the News, which is prominently propped on the hostess stand. 
As one of the most recognizable, trusted names in the province, his involvement helps explain why this out-of-the way establishment, located in an East Vancouver strip mall previously occupied by Choppers Diner, has been packed since it opened before Christmas. (It took me nearly a month to secure a reservation.) 
That said, Mr. Parsons cant take full credit for Poor Italians popularity either. His day-to-day business partner is Gianni Picchi. And in some dining circles, the Umbrian chef who spent 10 years at Il Giardino before opening his own restaurant, Gianni, in 1996, is as much a local legend. (Why? Im still wondering myself.) 
Those who have been following Mr. Picchi since the mid-eighties will probably feel a comfortable sense of nostalgia here. Poor Italian, in many ways true to its name, is a low-budget version of Il Giardino, with its Tuscan yellow walls, faux-marble motifs, stencil-drawn trimmings and heavy wooden farmhouse furniture. 
Look at the flair bartender spinning glasses behind the wood! I havent seen that sort of showmanship since Tom Cruise dazzled moviegoers in Cocktail, circa 1988. 
The menu is a similarly themed collection of old-school greatest hits, which isnt necessarily a bad thing. You cant knock the classics, if theyre prepared with love and great ingredients. 
Unfortunately, thats not the case at Poor Italian. Most of the dishes we try taste like they may have impressed back in the day  before the mangia cakes knew any better. 
Having recently worked as a waitress for a week, I know that I am being a very bad customer. I hem and haw as our server hovers, asking endless questions about almost every item on the menu. 
The young waiter is well within his rights to say (with a laugh), Hey, lady. Ive got other tables waiting. Though I still maintain that its well within a restaurant critics purview to test a servers food knowledge (if done with a smile) and expect a correct answer. 
For instance, I only order Spaghetti Alla Norcini ($19) because its allegedly tossed with freshly shaved black truffles. At this price, Im slightly skeptical about the freshness of the truffles, though it could well be a very small portion. 
The pasta we receive is a mix of spaghetti and linguine (different weights and shapes take different cooking times, which probably explains why the noodles are clumped together in sticky wads). The portion is plentiful, yet relatively tasteless, especially given the copious chunks of oily, pureed truffle in which the dish drowns. If these are fresh truffles (not the inferior, jarred variety), Ill eat a wild boars snout for breakfast. 
Cotoletta di Vitello Milanese ($28) is a breaded milk-fed veal chop that is promised to be so tender it will melt in our mouths. The meat is a creamy pink colour, indicating that it probably does come from a milk-fed calf (though the texture certainly isnt velvety enough to be of the highest quality). 
The bone-in chop is unusually thick, about 1 inches, and edged with an inedible layer of chewy gristle and fat that should have been trimmed. The breadcrumb batter is chunky and greasy. 
The vegetables only add insult to injury. The chop is laid over a starchy mound of lumpy turnip and mushy pickled purple sauerkraut. Roast potatoes are cold and hard; baked wedges of (whitish) tomato and (bland) golden beet are so overcooked they look mashed. 
Calamari with spicy sausage ($12) is tough on the teeth and not very piquant. The tomatoes theyre sauted in tastes like a cheap, canned brand fortified with sugar and citric acid. 
While the waiter is kind enough to bring us a complimentary half-portion of the daily pasta special, Im certainly glad I didnt pay for a full portion of this gummy gnocchi in a ragu sauce beefed up with veal, steak and more chewy gristle. 
We do enjoy the oyster soup ($8.50). The oysters are generous and gently plumped  though its hard not to be seduced by this much butter and cream. And millefoglie ($7) for dessert is layered with a very nice lemon mascarpone, even if the deep-fried phyllo pastry is a bit greasy. 
All in all, the best thing I can say about Poor Italian is that they certainly got the name right. 
Open since September, the Latin & Italian Restaurant sits in a nondescript brick building formerly occupied by Subway across from the venerable New Yorker. Inside, the restaurant's decor is basic, but owners Edwin and Zaida Cruz serve generous portions of good Italian and Latin food. 
Edwin Cruz said that in a diverse environment like New York City, where he comes from, a restaurant has to offer Latin and Italian fare to survive in the restaurant business. This explains his decision to offer what may seem like an unusual combination in Roanoke. 
The menu is divided between the two cuisines, with about one-third Latin fare and the rest Italian. The Latin portion includes carne asada (roasted meat), tacos de pollo (seasoned chicken in deep-fried tortillas) and pollo frito con tajadas (fried chicken with green banana). On the Italian side, you'll find various pasta dishes as well as chicken Alfredo, shrimp scampi and ziti primavera. The menu also features a variety of salads and hot and cold subs. 
THE VIBE
The restaurant was spare but clean. The restaurant's green and white interior consists mostly of the plastic booths and vinyl cushions offered by most fast food chains. There was a flat-panel television, though it was not close enough to our table to view (but with two other couples and several infants and toddlers, we had more than enough entertainment). Shortly after we arrived, the only other patrons in the restaurant left, and we had the whole place to ourselves for the remainder of our dinner.
THE FOOD
The toughest choice was whether to order from the Latin or Italian side of the menu. For some reason, we all seemed to be in the mood for Italian but decided to try at least one Latin appetizer. We asked for two orders of fried plantains with sour cream (a bargain at $3 per order) and two orders of breadsticks (another bargain at $2 for six breadsticks). If we had known how many fried plantains came in an order, we would have opted for just one dish.
The breadsticks were terrific and nothing at all like the prefab breadsticks offered by the national pizza chains. These breadsticks have to be pulled apart because they come as a loaf of soft, freshly baked bread smothered with melted Parmesan cheese straight from the oven. The breadsticks were even more heavenly when dipped in the accompanying marinara sauce. I've never eaten fried plantains with sour cream, which surprisingly turned out to be a real treat. The plantains were crispy and caramelized on the outside with a pleasant texture and deliciously sweet taste that was tempered by the sour cream. 
Enjoying a brief hiatus from my diet, I opted for the manicotti ($5.50) -- pasta filled with a generous mixture of ricotta, mozzarella, feta and Parmesan cheeses blended with a little garlic and basil. The delicious pasta is smothered with marinara sauce and crowned with melted mozzarella. Other than needing a little salt, the dish was great.
Having previously accompanied me during a review, most of my table mates knew that I would ask to sample their dishes. My wife chose the cheese steak special ($5.75), a very tasty sub with mushrooms, onions and green peppers.
The hearty chicken cacciatore (chicken breast sauteed with white wine, green peppers, onions and mushrooms with marinara sauce; $10) was good, though perhaps a little bland. The peppers and onions were crisp but more garlic might have spiced things up a bit. 
The chicken Marsala ($10) was plentiful with lots of chicken and mushrooms, though as my friend pointed out, it was difficult to taste the signature ingredient -- Marsala wine. 
Although I found the majority of the dishes pleasant, there were a few disappointments. The eggplant parmigiana ($9.25) was a little too mushy and light on eggplant flavor while the meatballs on one friend's spaghetti ($5.50) tasted slightly bitter and had a squishy meatloaf consistency. 
THE SERVICE
Having never been to the Latin & Italian Restaurant before, I called ahead to make sure they could accommodate six adults and three young children about 5 p.m. They said it would be no problem, but I arrived a few minutes early to be sure. The restaurant was nearly deserted, and I told Zaida Cruz how many people were coming. She immediately remembered that I was the one who called and although most of the seating consists of booths, she quickly began moving two tables together and positioning the highchairs. One note: One of the highchairs felt a little wobbly and unstable, which made my wife a little nervous. 
We had plenty of room to spread out, and Zaida took our orders quickly once the others arrived. She constantly refilled our drinks and the food came quickly. Luckily for us, Latin & Italian Restaurant is not the kind of place where the server frowns disapprovingly of children who drop half their meals (and half their parents' meals) on the floor. Some of downtown Roanoke's finest establishments could learn a thing or two from this little restaurant's attentive, pleasant and efficient service.
THE BOTTOM LINE
Don't let looks deceive you -- this diamond in the rough offers good food and good service worth your dining dollar.
It is a bizarre media paradox that restaurant critics are expected to strive, above all things, for anonymity. In almost every other profession I can think of, men and women strive to be recognised: young and ambitious doctors, lawyers, writers, soldiers, philosophers and trapeze artists long for the day when they will walk down the street and hear people muttering, There goes Albert Blornch, the world-famous whatever. 
But restaurant critics, in theory, do not. We are supposed not to want to be recognised for our work. We want to walk into a restaurant  of all places, the one where we are most likely to encounter people who give two sods about what we do  and be ignored. This is so that we can enjoy an authentic experience. And the only way to achieve this, at a time when food dominates so much of the media, and when people are so desperate for gastronomic guidance and so quick to idolise the commentators they read and hear, is to be dull. To remain steadfastly unadmired. To be unoriginal, unexotic, humdrum, unphotogenic, fat, old, weary and bad. 
Because if youre any good, people are going to take an interest. If you stretch yourself at all out of the confines of your home newspaper or magazine, complying in your own little way with the expand or die business model (taking that expansion metaphorically rather than endomorphically), if you allow yourself to be sought-after, heavily remunerated, generally frotted and buffed, wooed by television, courted by big business, and lusted after by women and men of all ages on all the continents, then youre going to get recognised. But not always, and not by everyone, not by any means. 
So it is always a shame when ones more anonymous colleagues (anonymous only for the reasons given above, yet treasuring that anonymity like Banksy, like J.D. Salinger, like the unbearded, hard-drinking, titty bar-frequenting head of an al-Qaeda sleeper cell) get all frothed up about it. And make fools of themselves. 
Like the restaurant critic who went to Osteria Emilia the other week, spotted me there, and made his sighting of me (ooh, look, its Giles Wotsisface off of that frozen peas advert, I bet theyre really laying it on for him, I bet its like being Rod Stewart, I bet hes having a really, really great time, much better than me, the bastard) the centrepiece of his review. 
Sometimes its good to be a covert reviewer, I reflected as I ate lunch at Hampsteads Osteria Emilia, he began. While The Times restaurant critic Giles Coren was allowed to order off the restaurants evening-only  la carte menu, unrecognisable me and the rest of the diners were encouraged to stick to the abbreviated list of lunch dishes I didnt have the brass neck to demand anything off the unavailable  la carte... I might not have received the red-carpet treatment, but my experience was rather more representative of what a real punter can expect 
Except that if this fellow, who writes for a widely read if not particularly highbrow newspaper, had spent a bit less time gawping at me and a bit more looking at the menu in front of him, he would have noticed that underneath the list of lunch options it said, Some dishes from the  la carte menu are available on request. 
Oops. Carefully reading the menu is really all you have to do in this job. And yet he failed to do it. And thus failed to test the restaurants wares properly, and founded his whole article on a misconception. Heroically incognito, bedded- in like a war correspondent in Kandahar, he could not perform the basic requirements of any journalist. 
Oh, and they had no idea who I was. When I asked for a copy of the menu to take away at the end of the meal they refused, fearing that I was a rival restaurateur looking to skim ideas. So he was wrong there, too. 
I say all that as a preamble to blushingly admitting that when Jamies Italian, in Oxford, told me that they did not take bookings, I called their PR company and asked if a table for 11 could be reserved for me the following Saturday. I have never done that before. But I was taking my five-year-old goddaughter, her two younger sisters, another toddler, and six adults, including three pretty stressed parents, and was, simply, buggered if I was going to queue down George Street in the height of summer, jostled and barged by fat Americans looking for Tower Bridge, and possibly not get fed. 
I guess it was wrong. Sorry. I mentioned that Id done this at a meeting of restaurant critics the other day and they clucked and tutted like a coopful of old pigeons, and long lectures on the importance of anonymity ensued. 
Screw em. It was that or nothing. And I was keen to try Jamies Italian, the first in a planned nationwide roll-out by the former naked, now fully dressed chef. 
The critics have long had it in for Jamie Oliver, mostly because he is not anonymous. And he is not anonymous because he is very, very successful. And he is successful because he understands (and likes) food and he understands (and likes) people. He is funny, modest, charming and very, very nice. All damn good reasons to be famous. And I say this having never met the guy (not even on some weird Planet Celeb where people who occasionally do a bit of food television gather, like the Elders of Zion, to ensure that everyone else has a crap time whenever they go out). 
And this restaurant, at least on the evidence of my fleeting, toddler-laden, self-proclaimed and thoroughly bogus visit, is as whole-hearted, well-meaning, honest and fun as anything he has ever done. It is big, it is rammed, it is loud, it is jolly and it is unbelievably good value. Clever design mixes modern mega-dining room with rustic Italian folksiness (hams dangle from the ceiling like giant porky fruit) and smiling staff jostle through the thrum carrying long wooden planks laden with antipasti  good, middle-standard prosciutto, some excellent, really zippy baby mozzarella, perfect crispy squid  and generous plates of his typical pasta dishes, featuring fresh ingredients thrown together (stunning truffle tagliatelle for 6) more than big-deal ragouts (although the spag bol was exceptional too). 
The salmon is organically farmed, the roasted half chicken is free-range and the Welsh lamb chops were as chubby and sweet as Oliver himself. As cooking, this is not rocket science, it is the fresh, lively, DIY fare in which he has always specialised and to do it at these prices is phenomenal  I paid 235 including service for 11 people, at least six of whom left blotto on big carafes of organic wine. The place is streets ahead of any Italian chain I can think of anywhere in the world. 
I guess some people will grumble about the menus folksy argot  it is studded with such horrors as good old grilled steak, worlds best olives, and loadsa herbs  but his language is part of what has made Jamie Oliver famous, and made this place possible. And I will be the very last person on earth to kick his head in for not being anonymous enough. 

3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly.
I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. Never again!
Rose Pistola is a great restaurant featuring excellent California style Italian food.
Buca Giovanni is a very authentic Italian restaurant in a romantic basement deep in North Beach. It's always reliable with great food and has been around for years. A meal runs around $30 per person.
The Stinking Rose has excellent vegeterian pasta at low prices in a cafe style atmosphere. Located in the trendy Marina District.
Il Fornaio is a California chain, but has great Italian authentic food in a romantic atmosphere. Excellent bakeries in the restaurant and in a nice park (Levi's Plaza)
Caffee Macaroni is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach
Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..." (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person.
Cocktail tables along the cliffs have full-on views of El Arco, making this the best place to toast to the sunset and another beautiful day in Los Cabos before moving to the candlelit dining room. Or merely remain outside, and enjoy dining alfresco. Italian Chef Emanuele Olivero has paid his dues in Los Cabos, with time at La Dolce in San José, at C in the Palmilla, and also at Pitahayas, before bringing his ideas to full fruition here at the Mona Lisa. The restaurant's four seasonal menus all depend on the ingredients that are in season at that particular time. How about ravioli filled with pumpkin, or La Paz blue crab covered with a cinnamon white sauce? Or seared halibut with crunchy polenta, sun-dried tomatoes, and asparagus tempura? Or go all out with the Grand Mona Lisa Tasting Menu, and try just about everything on their extensive menu. The restaurant is not really in the Corridor, but not really in town either; just a couple of miles up the hill—a short and relatively inexpensive taxi ride, well worth the trip for a sunset cocktail and dinner. Make sure you appreciate their Mona Lisa tile artwork both close-up and standing back a distance—an interesting optic illusion ensues.
I was there the first week of June with a group of friends and dining under the stars with the sound of crashing waves was an amazing experience. We were all very impressed with the food and the presentation. I met the chef (can't remember his name) who told us about his previous experience in a two stars Michelin restaurant in London. He prepared for us a special testing menu accommodating one celiac in our group.
I went back the day after with my wife as we had to have the Vulcano dessert one more time. Definitely a must have experience in Cabo.
I could not disagree with the Fodor ratings more. The setting for this resturant is beautiful sitting on a bluff overlooking lands end and the city of Cabo, however just a wonderful as the setting the food was polar opposite. four of us dined and each of us we disappointed with their meals, fish undercooked, veggies overcooked, poor service. Perhapos we were there on a bad night, but a place like this should newver have a bad night, you would be much better served eating at Mi Casa or the Office
In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.
Bellavitae, which opened not long ago on a nondescript corner of Minetta Lane and Sixth Avenue in the Village, is this kind of place. The modest little Italian restaurant occupies a single long room, with a bar in the back for eating and one in the front for sipping wines. The floor is covered with wide wood planking, and the ceiling with countrified beams. The proprietor, Rolando Beramendi, supplies many of the city’s leading Italian restaurants with their fancy imported olive oils, pastas, and vinegars, and Bellavitae (the name is a mix of the Latin for “beautiful life” and “beautiful vines”) is designed to showcase these rarefied products. So there are jars of chestnut honey from Lake Como ($17) set up along the walls, slim bottles of ancient Leonardi balsamic vinegar (a 100-year-old bottle costs $500), and little bags of baldo and arborio rice ($4 and $4.75, respectively) supplied by a contessa from the Piedmont region of Italy. There’s even a photograph of the rice-growing contessa on the wall, along with a rogues’ gallery (grizzled vintners, merry honey-makers, etc.) of Mr. Beramendi’s other suppliers.

If all this sounds a little precious, well, that’s because it is. Bellavitae is already a favorite haunt of delicate, food-obsessed souls who murmur over the quality of the green Nocellara olives (from Sicily) and the radicchio, which is state-inspected and picked by hand in the hills around Treviso. Unlike at some of the city’s other high-minded, ingredient-conscious foodie palaces, however, the menu here is presented casually, within the context of a familiar culinary tradition, and it’s relatively cheap. It’s the kind of straightforward, unfussy food that would send you into paroxysms of tourist glee if you came across it at a trattoria in the hills around Treviso, say. Like little pewter cocktail bowls filled with meatballs fried in extra-virgin olive oil, for instance, or grilled figs from Calabria bundled in strips of pancetta. There are toasty crostini also, layered with Gorgonzola drizzled with that chestnut honey from Lake Como or puréed chickpeas splashed with Sicilian olive oil and flakes of bottarga or stacked with chicken livers mashed, in the Tuscan style, with anchovies, garlic, and a trace of white-wine vinegar.

I liked the chicken-liver crostini the best, and would have ordered another platter or two if my cholesterol-fixated wife hadn’t threatened to grapple me to the floor. I also liked the figs, and the fried risotto balls, which are meager in size (they look like Tater Tots) but laced with nice bits of tomato and mozzarella. Before the heftier courses arrive, it’s also possible to indulge in a good, milky buffalo mozzarella tangled with prosciutto, and a variety of chaste vegetable dishes designed, in high Greenmarket fashion, to be admired as much for their beauty as for their taste. I sampled a decent salad made with perfectly spiky wild arugula leaves, and a wet, slightly wan-tasting plate of chickpeas flavored, it seemed, with nothing very much at all. The very good, very green fava beans are served uncooked, with nuggets of pecorino cheese, and then there’s the fancy Treviso radicchio, which isn’t bulbous like radicchios of my acquaintance, or even terribly bitter, but soft, almost sweet (here it’s flavored with more balsamic), and twirled with ribbons of grilled pancetta.

Unlike with the majority of brawny, overstuffed Italian restaurants these days, there are only four pasta dishes on the menu at Bellavitae, and four secondi courses, and they are more or less interchangeable as main courses. All the pastas I sampled were good, especially the thin tubes of egg garganelli tossed with an authentically beefy Bolognese ragù, chewy triangles of farro-based “pizzichi” pasta smothered in a rich porcini-mushroom-and-pancetta sauce, and a well-cooked bowl of bucatini piled with an assortment of shellfish. Among the secondi, my sliced steak could have been sliced thicker, and the tepid marinated sardines were obliterated by too many sweet onions. But the simple oven-baked pork fillet tasted fine, as did the chicken cacciatore, which was swimming in a rich tomato sauce filled with black Ligurian olives. There’s also a superior fritto misto, made with hunks of rabbit on one evening I visited and cod on another, and served, both times, with segments of fennel rolled in semolina and crunchy fried slices of Meyer lemon.

The menu changes often at Bellavitae, but many of the more exotic ingredients (extra-virgin olive oils, caperberries from Sicily, etc.) are constant, and many of them are for sale. The prices of these items are listed on the back of the menu, and some of the waiters hawk them a little too profusely. But this didn’t seem to faze the eclectic crowd, which included, on one of the nights I dropped in, several gigantic members of the New York Giants football team, all taking prim bites of pasta and squinting curiously at the labels of obscure Italian wines. Presumably these discerning gentlemen enjoyed the desserts, which are unfussy and agreeably Italian. There are wedges of spongy panettone, a dense slab of chocolate semifreddo dribbled with hazelnut liqueur, and a creamy, perfectly wobbly panna cotta doused with a grape essence called saba. Best of all are the gelati, which come drowned in espresso or infused with lemon marmalade and a mini shot of grappino (grappa flavored with Meyer lemons). Taste them delicately, like we weary gourmet professionals are taught to do, or do the natural thing and devour them whole.

In a city like ours, which has dozens of Italian restaurants, it can be very hard to stand out from the crowd. One veal parm melts into another. One plate of beans and greens is very much like the one before it, and the one to come after it, for that matter. And the endless procession of all things "French" gets tedious through over-exposure. In order to break away from the pack, an Italian restaurant has to offer something new and different, or it has to do the classics so well that they seem new and fresh. Two of Rochester's restaurant veterans have done just that at Italian Osteria Abruzzi, across from Seabreeze Amusement Park in Irondequoit.

Sharon Russo and Giustino Toppi, both most recently of the Trattoria Abruzzo on Ridge Road, combined their formidable experience and talent in producing a quintessential Italian restaurant that ever-so-slightly pushes the envelope of what you would expect to find on the menu. At first glance, not much distinguishes Italian Osteria from any other Italian place, including its predecessor Trattoria Abruzzo - even the layout of the banner on the menu echoes the earlier restaurant. The interior looks like every other red-sauce joint - a dining room carved out of a former house with a vaguely 60's or 70's rec-room feel to it. Even the music is what you would expect: all day, all the time, Frank and Deano croon the classics. The only trope that's missing is the raffia-wrapped bottles of chianti or sangiovese on the table. The wine is there, it's just not covered in wicker, alas.

With all of the standard props in place, you'd expect the menu here to be unexciting, but it's not. Chef Toppi brings more than 50 years of experience in the kitchen to bear on both the classics and dishes that aren't often seen on Italian restaurant menus. Yes, he makes greens and beans, and there are artichokes French on the appetizer menu, but there are also some exciting things, particularly the unpronouncable cacio e uova, a mixture of escarole, eggs, garlic and cheese that may well displace omelets or frittata as standard brunch fare ($8.95). The combination of chopped escarole sauteed with garlic and then mixed with egg and cheese to produce something that looks like a very loose, moist omelet does not have immediate curb appeal. But the flavor is out of this world. Creamy and smooth with hints of slightly bitter green and salty notes from the cheese, this is straight-up comfort food probably born out of adversity - some age-old Italian mother pressed to make dinner when all that was left in the house were greens, the eggs she'd gathered that morning, and a cheese rind.

Chef Toppi's soups are studies in minimalism, bringing roughly the same ingredients used in cacio e uova to bear on a different medium with very tasty results. Stracciatella ($2.50 cup, $3 bowl), the Italian version of Chinese egg-drop soup, requires the chef to beat eggs and good parmesan cheese together into a loose batter before pouring the mixture into the simmering soup. In order to stop the eggs from simply clumping together, the chef has to temper the egg mixture by adding hot broth to it a bit at a time so that the egg coalesces into long, feathery strands. Doing it right takes practice, and Chef Toppi does it perfectly. The soup, clearly based on a good homemade stock, is full of vegetables, the egg mixture adding a creamy and salty complement to the other ingredients.

The red sauce at Italian Osteria is the second-best I've tasted anywhere (the best, in case you are wondering, is made by Angie Capone at Antonetta's on Jay Street). It is rich and sweet with an underlying meaty flavor that is very appealing, bringing with it a pleasant, garlicky tang and a bit of herbs with just the tiniest licorice aftertaste that might be fennel seed. Deep red and walking the narrow line between too thick and too thin, it's good on everything, even on bits of bread that I used to mop up my plate at the end of the meal.

Chef Toppi's sauce may be second-best, but what's under the sauce is unparalleled. His homemade ravioli - massive pillows of tender pasta stuffed with a flavorful ricotta mixture - are without peer in our area ($14.95). The cutlets of both veal and eggplant on his plates of parmigiana are artfully cooked, golden and crispy outside, tender and juicy within ($14.95, eggplant; $16.95, veal). Toppi's skill is particularly evident in the eggplant, which is cut just thick enough to maintain some body in cooking but not so thick as to be tough or undercooked. He also clearly salts his eggplant before breading and cooking it, removing the slightly bitter taste that often mars fried eggplant dishes. He even cooks pasta perfectly, the penne in his excellent (and incredibly spicy) penne all'arrabiata actually stands up on the plate like a forest of little quills, rather than sliding around aimlessly in the sauce ($15.95).

Often restaurants give away the chef's specialties by attaching his name to them. At Italian Osteria Abruzzi, it's the name of the chef's home region in Italy that's the giveaway: anything with "Abruzzi" on it is going to be amazing - and the pollo Abruzzi ($16.95) is no exception. Really just a variation on chicken marsala, pollo Abruzzi combines a well-seared chicken cutlet, pounded thin, with crimini mushrooms and cannelini beans and prosciutto in a marsala wine sauce that is unquestionably finished with a generous shot of butter. The result is heavenly. The mushrooms are seared to heighten their flavor, the ham cooked tender but not overdone, and the beans - these were definitely soaked and cooked in house rather than coming from a can - are tender and remarkably savory. Chef Toppi uses all of these ingredients to build a sauce that is so complex that it's nearly impossible to describe: garlic, salt, an undercurrent of good wine, the earthy musk of mushrooms, and the slight thickening power of the beans are so wonderful that you almost forget about the chicken in your desire not to let a single spoonful of sauce escape your attention.

Assuming there are any leftovers - and that's very likely given that portions here are huge pollo Abruzzi will be the dish that you will covet for lunch the next day, assuming that your spouse doesn't beat you to it and polish it off as a midnight snack.

We were a party of six visiting Moda on Fri 12th Feb 2010. Having heard mixed reports we were not quite sure of what to expect. What a pleasant surprise we got. The food was fantastic, for which we complimented the chef. The atmosphere and hospitality was warm and welcoming and the service was excellent. My partner is Italian and he was very impressed with everything. We had a truly brilliant evening and the duo playing music made the night even better. We cannot wait to go again and highly recommend it to everyone, you won't be disappointed. Cannot understand some of the previous poor reviews we've read. Well done Moda, keep up the good work.
Had a last minute impromptu Sunday evening meal here. The service was a little rushed and I felt somewhat hurried with my meal. The actual quality of the food was reasonable but there was nothing out of the ordinary for an Italian restaurant. It was a nice surprise when we found there was a discount of 50% on the main meals as it was a promotional night.
Good food, good service, nice atmosphere, well priced
Well done Moda
My wife and I went to Moda restaurant for a birthday celebration on my friend’s recommendation on Sat. night and was totally surprise to find such a butiful restaurant in the middle of Hucknall.What a décor and set up? It is amazing. Food is great (I could see through an open kitchen how the food was prepared) Atmosphere was fantastic, service was first class, price are reasonable. Try the desserts they are out of this world especially their home made panna cotta .I must admit it was one of the best restaurant I ever visited. Highly recommend it .I will go back again worth the travelling.
i live in Hucknall so wanted to support this local restaurant. i was nicely surprised. The food is gorgeous and reasonably priced, they also do meal offers during the week. Clean, friendly , lovely atmosphere and fab food, just what Hucknall needs.
Sofias restaurant is excellent, good food, good service. 
The place to go if you want a special night.

Great atmosphere, lovely food, been there a few times and its always good!

friendly staff and prices are reasonable..AND you have to try the Tiramisu! - beautiful! 
This place is amazing, lovely food, excellent service, and a nice friendly atmosphere!

I'm going back again soon!! 
I loved this resturant. Not only was the staff friendly, but the place was breath taking. Loved the candles and the light effects. The food was excellent and the portions was a good size. The price of the food was very resonable too. I would recommend sofias to anyone and it is a great place to eat out for couples.
Well I have to say the previous review is very, very wrong! I have just come back from a spectacularly bad meal at this restaurant.

The food was free from flavour (and swimming in grease). The candle holder on the table was broken with shattered glass lying just waiting to cut someone and the waiting staff were not concerned by this!

The wine was from 2 litre bottles that obviously cost £3.00 or less (we saw the waiting staff filling the glasses with this rot)

DO NOT GO TO SOFIAS! It is bad and you will pay through the nose for the experience. £70 for 2 courses. I have paid less at better restaurants.

The place is a bad joke stuck in the 70's. Their menus have not been changed in 20 years, literally the menus are the same. The only updated thing is the cost and that is as over inflated as the housing market. What is with the dragon?

This is the worst restaurant I have ever been to. Don't go. 
When one of the country's most respected and leading critics says that a restaurant in this group is 'the best Italian Restaurant outside London' it is time to take them seriously. Britain's love affair with Italian food is a cause célèbre of long standing and shows no signs of waning, so it is always welcome news when somewhere like San Carlo sets out to reach for the skies.

Located in the heart of Bristol, San Carlo is well suited to catch both day and night time business, and the menu reflects this. There are 147 different dishes, plus blackboard specials, offering snacks, meals, celebrations, all in true Italian style, dishes that bring Italy into the very centre of life in the city. San Carlo is one of a chain of similar restaurants, yet each one has its own personality.

The San Carlo at Bristol was the second in the group to be developed, emphasizing clearly that a San Carlo is not a theme restaurant but a highly lavish exclusive Italian venue for people who appreciate fine food, good service, luxurious and comfortable surroundings, as well as value for money.

Favourite dishes include marinated Tuscan beef in extra virgin olive oil with porcini and topped with flakes of Parmesan cheese, and that old favourite of connoisseurs the world over, pan fried breast of chicken with spicy Italian sausage, fine chopped peppers, sun brushed tomatoes with white wine and a touch of tomato sauce. Many of the ingredients to create these dishes are imported from Italy, and it goes without saying that the wine list is unashamedly and spectacularly of the same origin.

A combination of Italian cuisine and fish has always seemed logical - all that coastline - as well as highly attractive to the British taste. The antipasti at San Carlo include fresh oysters, mussels marinière, tuna carpaccio and barbeque spare ribs. Amongst the main courses expect to find on the blackboard Dover sole, either grilled or Colberg, fresh halibut, sea bass, a mixed grill of fish, salmon in lobster sauce, lobster Thermidor or tagliolini and shellfish Mediterraneo.

It is customary to look for Italian wines in such places, nor will you be disappointed, but there are a few French inclusions also, with a rather nice Chablis in evidence. House wines, and few off the list, are available by the glass. Service is a good example of that Italian 'just make yourself at home we'll look after everything' manner, when you generally surprise yourself by taking their advice. In Britain we just say 'no problem', which may be succinct, but lacks style.

Groups are welcome at San Carlo, but to preserve the balance between groups, a limit of up to nine people applies on Friday and Saturday, and twenty to thirty on weekdays. Booking will always make for security but in general the arrangements mean there is room for everybody. It is worth remembering that you will have the best service and advice from their Italian Directors and staff throughout.

Ultimately a restaurant is judged by two main factors, each dependent upon the other. Combine quality food with life's movers and shakers in attractive surroundings and you have a sure fire record for the sweet buzz of success that permeates San Carlo.
I have been going to San Carlo since its opening many years ago. The food and service is still as excellent as the first time I ate there.
Quite simply the best Italian I have been to anywhere in the UK. The atmosphere buzzes, the service is great, the photos of famous diners are interesting and most important, and the food is awesome. Be prepared to take some time choosing your dishes as the menu is extensive and you'll want to eat all of it. Save space for pudding as well. Oh and book in advance, this place is always fully booked.
My wife and I have been to Varano's a few times and absolutely loved it! We have always left feeling more than satisfied, both by the food and the service! The menu has a wide variety of appealing entree selections. One of our particular favorite appetizer's is the Winter Bruschetta...it is amazing! Fantastic restaurant, great food, great memories!
My family comes straight from Italy so they are familiar with good Italian food. Also the Italian music in the background and the fireplace makes a warm, comfortable atmosphere for enjoying a delicious meal. Varano's catered our wedding and did an excellent job. Our guests raved about the food(especially the eggplant) and the presentation was beautiful. Thank you with a heart full of appreciation.
What Italian restuarant have you ever been to that only has 2 types of pasta and spaghetti isn't one of them? The spot and atmosphere is wonderful but the food is so-so. Not sure why they have such a great reputation when there are so many better places out there?!
I think as an owner of a restaurant, it is extremely important to listen to our customer's feedback. When I read this review, I was a little bit confused as to the point the customer was trying to make. It seems that the customer's complaint is based on lack of pasta on our menu. Here is where I'm confused, we have linguine, penne, whole wheat penne, fettucini, gnocchi, ravioli and lasagna on our menu available every day. Based on consumers eating less carbs in their diets, I feel we have a more than adequate selection of pastas on our menu. In addition, we feature nightly specials that include tortellini and squid ink pasta on a regular basis. I'm not sure what point the customer was trying to make. If I'm going to try and grow and improve my restaurant, I need feedback that is more specific.
Visited here on Saturday for a late lunch and have to say it is the worst service I have ever received in any restaurant. 15 minutes after being seated I eventually asked a waitress if we could order some drinks….only to be rewarded with an extremely dirty look, how dare I have the audacity to request service! We ordered bread and olives which took 15 minutes to materialize and then a further lengthy wait for our main courses. The food was decent enough but not that good to compensate for the abysmal service. We then ordered 2 espressos and a tia maria coffee, were delivered 2 cold espressos and a glass of tia maria, complained about this and was offered more coffee (how may espressos can you drink) and was eventually delivered the tia maria coffee.
The Manager was charming and didn't charge us for the wine and coffees by way of compensation but this does not make up for the fact that the place is staffed by surly unhelpful staff who have poor service down to a fine art, the sooner they are issued their P45 the better. I would not eat at Centotre again nor would I recommend it to anyone.
Just taking the time to write to you show how very disappointed I was to have tried to eat in this restaurant. We live in Germany and during a visit to Edinburgh we took some Friends for dinner. I cannot remember having ever had such bad quality Food and Service in my life… I can say, I have been in most of the Countries in this world, not even in the poorest ones, I have had such disgusting food and appalling Service!
I think it gives a very bad image to the very friendly Scottish People to have such Restaurant in the heart of a beautiful city like Edinburgh. 
To say I was disappointed would be a total understatement. We arrived and were ignored for about 10 mins before approaching a member of staff about getting a table. Should have seen this as a sign to walk straight out. Sat down and then despite actually asking for menus from 2 waitresses they both ignored us. The waitress actually looked annoyed that I had the audacity to ask her the question in the first place as she was busy shining glasses. We then ordered 2 glasses of white wine that had clearly been sat for too long - warm and tasted corked. When we asked for these to be replaced the waitress was extremely rude and did not apologise. We simply got a very dirty look - if I am paying £6 for a glass then I think I am entitled to ask for another if I feel it is corked.

I would not reccommend this place to anyone. The cooks clearly are doing a brilliant job because the food is very good - unfortunately the service from the waitress overshadows the whole experience. They actually seemed more interested in laying tables than tending to us. And then they had the audacity to charge us for 4 glasses of wine!

Outside I believe there is a sign which states something like service served with a smile etc.. trade description act comes to mind...

If anyone asks I will be letting them know about my experience - I just wish I had checked reviews myself before going. Please don't do it to yourselves!
Food OK eventually but service terrible. Quiet Monday night. Arrived at 9pm and finally got my steak at 10pm. Had to send it back as they hadn't cooked it properly (was still very rare). All in all, not impressed and would not go again.
I read the reviews posted on your site and felt I had to write one too, because the others were so untrue of my experience!

I recently took my family for a meal at Centotre and was absolutely thrilled - what a gorgeous setting! The staff really looked after us, which is a tough thing to do because I have three messy young children who are easily distracted and I'm a self confessed picky eater!

There are too many places nowadays which sacrifice good food for being trendy or stylish or whatever else people think restaurants should be like. Centotre is just not like that. Big Italian family portions and delicious flavours in every dish. I was sorry I didn't have room for pudding!

I would highly reccommend a visit to Centotre for everyone who enjoys their food. (Especially good when served with great wine and good company...)
I have eaten twice at this restaurant and on both occasions the service was appalling.

The first occasion was dinner for a friend's birthday. We were put at a table just inside the door and had people who were queuing for tables crammed up against us for the majority of our meal. The service was slow. I asked for a well done steak and was told the chef didn't like cooking well done steaks but they would see what they could do (I really dislike this kind of pretentiousness). I was eventually served a rare steak which was fatty accompanied by a wilting salad. The other diners at my table were equally unimpressed with their food. The waitress brought our wine and couldn't use the cork screw (not because she didn't have the strength but, unbelievably, because she didn't know how to use a cork screw). She then stood giggling next to our table while one of us opened the bottle for her. Well the chef may not like cooking well done steaks but perhaps the customers don't like having to train their staff on the job!! We left and went to another restaurant for coffee.

On the next occasion we took a friend for lunch (Centotre was his choice). We waited so long for our meal to be served he had to go return to work before it arrived. The rest of us were treated to a decidedly average lunch.

I would not eat at Centotre again.
I have read the other reviews and had a different experience. I was invited to a business meeting at Centotre which is always a great way to experience where to eat in Edinburgh (i.e. the cost is not coming out of your own pocket so you are more likely to be relaxed about trying new places!). I loved the building, I thought the ‘bistro’ style of the tables and chairs let it down though. Also all the tables were packed in like sardines – I could have helped myself quite easily to the neighbouring tables condiments!. There was little privacy therefore and felt a bit too much like a pub meal atmosphere. The prices were expensive but I though, perhaps it will live up to the cost with the food….it did not in my case I am afraid. I had chargrilled chicken on a salad with a garlic and lemon mayonnaise. The chicken was very dry and overcooked, the salad had been dressed too early and was wilting and there was far too much mayonnaise – it was over powering. The service was good though, friendly, attentive without being over eager but swift enough. Unfortunately, when I left virtually all my dinner no-one asked me if it was OK which would have given me a opportunity to comment without the embarrassment of having to raise it separately. At this time I would not recommend it to anyone.
"Writing to let you know how disappointed we were with our visit to Centotre. Food was good but 3 times I had to tell over keen waiting staff that we were not finished and could they please not remove our plates. Clearly when plates are half full, people are chatting and cutlery is not together on the plates - PEOPLE ARE NOT FINISHED. We were so cheesed off with this that we did not stay for dessert or even a coffee, what a shame as a table of 5 would spend quite a bit! Having looked at other comments, we are not the first to complain about the staff at this restuarant. It does not do George Street justice!"
"Food not at all bad - but service appalling.
Ages before anyone took our order. Ages to arrive. No sign of the drinks. Waiters telling us it wasn't their floor area. Empty plates (starters) in front of us for ages (a shift change was to blame apparently). Manager not in the least bit interested when we took the trouble to explain our experience on the way out."
"Been 3 times to Centotre. The first two times weren't bad. The food was decent although can be pricey depending what you pick. The 3rd time was atrocious - mostly due to the service. We arrived at the same time as 3 other tables. Initally we were asked to wait at the bar. Then another waitress came running over and told us no-one was allowed to sit at the bar on a Saturday. So they took us to a table downstairs where we waited 20 minutes for our order to be taken. Our starters never arrived and we had to ask for our main-courses which arrived 55 minutes after we ordered. They then put the wrong amount through on our card when paying, and so we were even further delayed. When we were leaving we found that the bar was full of people sitting at it!
Needless to say we haven't been back since. The service was just so apalling".
There are some cute touches in Jamie Oliver's new high-street Italian: a man wanders about with a great long bread-board of balsamic-sprinkled parmesan for the people waiting. Except we wouldn't need to be waiting, were it not for the totally uncute touch that you can't book. Oxford trenchermen queue round the block, just to be allowed into the indoors queue, which itself doesn't promise you a table in under an hour. I'll tell you what about quaint university towns: they are never so swamped with nice restaurants that people refuse to be treated like this. Too many libraries and branches of Past Times.

The menu is written with a chumminess slightly more nauseating than actual Pedigree Chum: 'good old grilled steak', 'my favourite humble green salad', 'why not upgrade your olive oil?' It's like watching the process of aspiration from the other side; rightly or wrongly, Jamie Oliver seems to have decided that everyone wants to be him. The whole set-up, from its late-youth, exposed-steel-beams industrial interior to its 'Hey, you can appreciate the Tuscan without being, like, Tony Blair, man', is rooted in the idea that we don't just want to eat his food, we want to find a warm place in his psyche and dwell there.

Yet of course none of that matters if it tastes nice, and some of it does. A and I shared a meat antipasti platter (£6.50 a head), which consisted of mortadella (it's the ironist's choice, isn't it? Looks like a post-surgical dressing, tastes like the 1970s, and yet it's cool because it's Italian. Having said all that, I do quite like it), finocchiona (fennel salami), bresaola, prosciutto and two small balls of the best, most yielding and delicate mozzarella I've ever had outside Rome. Plus a bland root-vegetable salad (looked like it should have been pickled, but wasn't) and a pecorino with too much sweet-chilli sauce on it for me to tell you with confidence what it tasted like (though given the mozzarella it was probably delicious). This was a lot of fun, and fairly priced. The long, thin antipasti board is propped up on tins of tomatoes, the staff are informal and sweet, there's an atmosphere of holiday charm and disorder that has been ruthlessly systematised. I know I'm giving out some mixed messages: it's fun one minute and ruthless the next. There is plenty of delight in the ingredients and a fair amount of skill in the execution, which is what it's meant to be about. But I can't shake an aftertaste of cynicism, a sense that he's playing us all like a violin.

A's baked organic Shetland salmon (£13.50) had been incredibly slowly cooked, so that it ended up with an almost mousse-like texture, which I don't like but do recognise is a matter of taste. Its bed of vegetables, mainly fennel and small yellow tomatoes, was more objectively so-so; it looked watery, and A said, sadly, 'It's like something you might be given at a friend's house.' I had the 'lamb chops scorched fingers' (£13.85), which were nice and unpretentious, with a fresh but rather mainstream dressing (it called itself 'Italian mint sauce' - I think it just meant 'salsa verde with not much garlic, while the hoi polloi get used to the idea'). Fourteen quid was steep for three chops, I thought.

We shared the 'ultimate chocolate banana brownie' (£4.65), and it was so sweet I'm getting a sugar flashback now - like a hash brownie, only instead of a psychedelic experience I had a headache and my tongue stuck to the roof of my mouth. There's a reason people use nuts instead of bananas - you need something to cut through the chocolate, not unite with it and gang up on your glycaemic reading.

Ach, the place isn't that bad. It's certainly not boring, it's not penny-pinching (or at least not very), and some of the salads whizzing past looked gorgeous. I just worry about Jamie's self-belief. It's too much; it makes you want to go to McDonald's. 
Modern and minimalist, Tom Aikens's brasserie is always packed with chic Londoners hammering out business deals or simply posing. He teams roast monkfish with lyonnaise potatoes and red-wine jus (£21.50)
Every dish is a published Delia Smith recipe, including chicken with sherry vinegar and tarragon sauce, herbed new potatoes and freshly shelled peas (£32 for three courses)
A whitewashed old fisherman's cottage houses one of Stein's more casual eateries. The menu champions seafood, of course, such as grilled fillet of haddock with thinned mayonnaise, cannellini beans, capers and tarragon (£11.50)
Providing both casual and fine dining for all tastes in the warm surroundings of a completely new style bar and restaurant spread over 2 floors.

With menus offering contemporary Mediterranean, Italian and British dishes to suit all tastes and occasions, Stranded in London - Italian Restaurant promises a truly memorable dining and drinking experience.
This place is a real gem. We took our parents last night for a Mother's Day meal, as we'd heard good reviews from friends about it. We were also impressed with the price they were charging, even in comparison with what some of the really awful places were charging, and the amazing smells you get from the upstairs open-plan kitchen.

For starter I had beetroot salad with fennel, home made cottage cheese and walnuts. The contrast in flavour and texture of all the ingredients was excellent, along with it being something 99 percent of places wouldn't have on a standard Mother's Day menu. My wife had the pork terrine. This was both flavoursome and pleasing to the eye and came with some fresh bread and a few mixed leaves.

For mains I went for the roast pork and my wife for the bream with cockles and samphire. The pork was really well-cooked and came with excellent crackling and apple sauce. One small complaint is that the vegetables could have been a little hotter, but that really would be me nitpicking. All the elements of the dinner were done well. The gravy was good and not like wallpaper paste like so many places serve gravy. You could tell it had been made in the tray the meat had been cooked in. The Yorkshire pudding was great along with the roast potatoes, cauliflower cheese, red cabbage, etc...

My wife's bream was well-cooked with nice crisp skin, a smooth flavoursome creamy sauce and well-cooked clams and samphire.

For dessert I went for the custard tart with rhubarb. This was the low point of the meal for me. The custard tart filling was excellent, topped with loads of grated nutmeg and a really rich custard. The pastry was too thick and over cooked (highlighted when I sent a piece flying across the restaurant floor when trying to cut it in half). The rhubarb component was just a thin line of really nice sauce. I was expecting pieces of rhubarb or even just a little bit more of the sauce to be honest.

All in all though, the pluses by far outweigh the minuses. The range of drinks at the bar is excellent, the service is great (this included a call the day before to confirm booking), the atmosphere in the restaurant is really good and for £15.95 for a 3 course meal on Mothers Day I don't think many places could beat it for value. We will definitely be returning to try the restaurant menu, as it is one of the better meals we've had in Sheffield. 
I had duck in a red wine sauce with caramelised onions. For £14.95 I got four pathetic little slices of duck, five slices of carrot and two slices of courgette. No potatoes because the waitress only brought six portions of vegetables between ten people. On questioning why the lack of vegetables the waitress agreed to bring more, these were brought just after we had all finished eating.

Then on the sweet menu you notice that the sweets are £5.95, and cheese and biscuits are £6.50. So we decided that we had been well and truly fleeced with the main course, so the sweet could go and jump.

Then after being presented with the bill, I was horrified to see that I had been charged £3.55 for half a lager. Yes that 's right, £7.10 per pint.

So as you can see my review is that the service is first class, the food quality is excellent, but the value for money is a total rip-off. And I would say I was more satisfied with the local chippy than this way overpriced, over-hyped fleecing restaurant. People leave well alone, you have been warned. 
The food is always first class and the staff always friendly, professional and polite. They can never do enough for you. These rude, loud, annoying, drunk dinners are obviously professional complainers, and do it to get free meals and wine (as they did that night) wherever they go! Well done, it worked!

As for spoiling her birthday, not one of them showed any remorse for spoiling all the other diners in the restaurant's special occasions! It was Marco and his staff that came and apologised to us all personally.

I hope when we get to that age we know how to behave in a restaurant in front of other dinners.
In my opinion, one of the finest Italian restaurants in the country, with its chic contemporary exterior and interior design, ambience, friendly attentive staff and fabulous food.

The quality of food and the service is always excellent at Milanos. Staff particularly are always attentive and cheerful. In my opinion it is the best restaurant in Sheffield for food and atmosphere. The staff never rush you for your order and you can enjoy the bar area for a drink before your meal.

The food is modern Italian and the staff are very knowledgeable about the menu and will offer assistance if necessary.
A packed restaurant on a Sunday night reflects good quality food and service. This is getting to be one of our regular meals out.
Another very enjoyable meal.
This new restaurant continues to delight.
Fantastic food as usual and the 5pm menu had been altered since the last time we were there, which showed nice variety and good choice.
Excellent value for money
Excellent meal again! Would definitely recommend.
Excellent meal, excellent price. Consistent in quality.
Great value for money - 3 courses for £10 is ideal. Food very nice. Waiting staff friendly. I'm going back!
Great value for money. Friendly staff. Worth a visit.
Top class restaurant.
Beautiful food & wine, friendly & welcoming atmosphere, excellent prices..what else could you ask for!!???“
Have had dinner here a few times and the food, service, and atmosphere are always top notch!
This was my second visit, and it was just as good as the first time. Excellent value for money, great standard of food, and lovely relaxed atmosphere. A must if you live in the West End.
Great value for money and a good choice of food. The staff are friendly. We will be back
A warm welcome and a nice atmosphere in Lamora. We noticed that tables around us were getting baskets of bread but we only got some along with soup that was ordered as a starter. The soup and steamed mussels to start were really tasty and there was a good wait to recieve the main course. We had the steak which was nicely done and the seafood linguine but the waiter did not bring any pepper or parmesan and I had to wait a while to get the attention of the only waitress that was attending the tables. The desserts were fantastic and we left full. I feel if the service had been a bit quicker they would get in more customers as I saw lots of people being turned away. The wine was also a bit on the pricey side but the food was lovely.
had never noticed this before booking through 5pm but definitely not disappointed. The food was great value for money and tasted great. There was ample to choose from and the staff were very friendly. Would recommend this place.
We've been for lunch a couple of times and wanted to give the pre-theatre a try to see if it was just as good. Food was excellent and we'll be back
We had such a great time at Lamora, I can't recomend it highly enough! Lovely cosy, modern decor; friendly, efficient service; DELICIOUS food; and at a great price. Really enjoyed Lamora, we will definitely be back soon.
This is one of the best new restaurants with an excellent well priced menu choice. To be recommended.
I rarely eat at Italian restaraunts, as it is so easy to cook at home, but having eaten at Lamora, I will definitely be back. We booked a 3 course pre-theatre for 10.95 a head and considering the quality of the food, I can't remember having better value for money. The service was excellent and we were given adequate time to digest the food between courses. The surroundings were comfortable, bright and very clean. If I was pushed to make a criticism, I would have preferred some authentic Italian background music, but for food, service and value for money, you will be hard pushed to find better.
Fantastic restaurant, great service and amazing food. Excellent selection on the pre-theatre menu and the quality is very high. Have already recommended Lamora to most of my friends!
Great value for money, good food and service.
Great food,lovely surroundings and superb value for money.
Every aspect absolutely excellent as always!
This is becoming one of our favourites. Great friendly staff. The food quality is very good. Mostly Italian with a good menu choice.
Lovely food, good service and excellent value for money. Will certainly return soon.
What a great Italian restaurant. We were a party of 6 people and everyone thought the meal and service were first class.
A superb family restaurant.
Another fantastic meal!
Lovely food as ever.
This restaurant is an excellent newcomer to the Glasgow eating scene. Excellent food at keen prices.
The food and service is always excellent at Lamora.
Excellent as usual.
The food and service were excellent, portion sizes were spot on and value for money on the pre-theatre menu was great. Will definitely be back!
This restaurant is well worth a visit with good food and wine excellently priced. Staff are very friendly.
A real gem with good food well priced.
A pleasant meal experience with a combination of good service and excellent food.
This is a very nice little Italian restaurant not far from Kelvin Way on Argyle St. It's not been open long but the food is excellent, there's a decent selection of vegetarian food and the staff are friendly and fairly attentive (although not overly so). The pre-theatre menu is particularly good value offering three courses for £11.
Delicious traditional Italian food at very reasonable prices and authentic feel with tiramisu to die for!!
This is a little gem of a resturant with excellent food, well priced. Superb wines to accompany.
Absolutely excellent as always!
Another fantastic meal at Lamora. Great value!
First visit - loved it. Excellent menu and fresh tasting food.
Excellent meal atmosphere and price.
Good value overall, nice starters and pudding - main was a bit average.
Pleasant restaurant, attentive staff and the food was good!
Chose different meals from before - standard equally good. Lobster ravioli unique and excellent.
One of the very best meals we have had! Absolutely excellent.
What brilliant value, service was fantastic, food delicious. £10.95 for a 3 course pre-theatre with plenty of choice. We asked for the mussels starter to be made differently - no problem. Carbonara was as good as I've had, my son asked for a seafood type pizza and I think he expected maybe anchovies and tuna. Imagine his surprise when a gorgeous pizza brimming with fresh scallops, squid, king prawns and mussels arrived. Finally, the Tiramisu is better than I've had anywhere outside Italy. Everyone who likes real Italian food should try this place. We will certainly be back.
Beautiful meal, excellent value.
Great as usual..!!
Fantastic meal & service, would definitely return!
The food as ever was lovely and my partner was very pleased with the amount of lobster in the lobster ravioli and it tasted delicious..!!
The meal and service were very good. I thought it was excellent value for money. I will go back“
The food was closer to the food you would eat in Italy than the food you are served in many "Italian" restaurants in Glasgow.“
Thoroughly enjoyed our meal. The food was excellent and the service was friendly.
A great night, very cheap. Excellent food, what more could you ask for?
Excellent family run restaurant, with fantastic food and great service.
Excellent meal as always!
Really tasty, quality food.
The food was excellent, one of the few times I have eaten veggie but thouroughly enjoyed every mouthful. Visited a bit to early to really experience the ambiance of the restaurant. Certainly be back!!
Excellent restaurant, friendly efficient staff food was marvellous will be telling all my family and friends and will be back again and again!
The 2nd time we have been and simply can't fault this place. Food & Service were both excellent. A must for anyone!!
Very tasty food, value for money 3 courses for £10.95 just enough. Friendly and attentive staff.
Value for money, tasty and well presented food, service attentive.
VERY FRIENDLY WITH GOOD SERVICE AND EXCELLENT FOOD.
The restraunt is generally very quiet. During this visit there was not much time between courses therefore felt a little rushed.
This was my fourth time at Lamora in recant weeks. 5 out of 5, on every count, from ten of us who dined at Lamora on 17th March. The veggie among us loved her courses, too. We all said, "We will be back..." Well done, Lamora!
Fantastic, what a great little place,excellent service,friendly staff,tasty well presented food at reasonable prices, the steamed mussels were the best.I shall return.
3 courses for £10.95 cant be beaten, just a little quiet though we were there at 5:15 on a thursday!! Might be better later or another day, just a bit dead!
This is easily a five star out of five star place in all categories. Value for money is exceptional, service was prompt and friendly, food was good and the selection was excellent - I'd be surprised to find people who don't like this place.
The food was fantastic and the prices excellent.
A lovely restaurant and great food. Staff were friendly and helpful, especially as we were late, very understanding!
Another meal full of tasty dishes, beautifully presented. There were 6 of us having 3 courses each. All plates were emptied apart from one who complained she had too much!
Lovely food, friendly staff, great value for money.
Having eaten in many Italian establishments in Glasgow, it is a delight to discover Lamora. Although some reviews have questioned the casual nature of the surroundings and tablecloths, what is beyond debate is the sheer excellence of the food, service and value for money. You would be foolhardy not to visit soon, because undoubtedly it will become very difficult to get a seat when the news is out!
very friendly restaurant- food is excellent, all home made- puddings especially lovely!!
Excellent. Made very welcome. Fresh ingredients, simple but interesting menu. Excellent prices.
A lovely, relaxed place to eat. The food was great tastong and fantastic value. The service was attentive but not overbearing.
Good value for money. sad to see Argan Cafe going but Lamora is worth trying
Amazing value for money. Attentive service and food was delicious! would recommend and will be going back!
excellent food and great variety,excellent service and value.
Food was fantastic and what a great choice for £10.95 ( for 3 courses). Lamora sets the standard that others should match. All staff where very polite and attentive, without being obtrusive. Leave the town center and head West, you could do a lot worse than Lamora. Well done guys.
Good value for money, very quiet for a Friday evening but guess that's because it's relatively newly opened
Good value for money, very quiet for a Friday evening but guess that's because it's relatively newly opened
food was quite nice. lots of choice. starters didn't impress me too much but mains were good. good value for money
Will definately be back. Food was fab and menu choice was excellent given the cost for 3 courses was only £10.95.
three years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly. Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful. The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed. All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu. thoroughly recommend Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful. The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed. All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu. thoroughly recommend Comment on this reader review Helen MacEwan 9 Overall rating 9 stars Food 9 | Service 10 | Atmosphere 9 | Value for money 9 Saturday, February 13, 2010 Italian Kitchen Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate! Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice. I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful. The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed. All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu. thoroughly recommend Comment on this reader review Helen MacEwan 9 Overall rating 9 stars Food 9 | Service 10 | Atmosphere 9 | Value for money 9 Saturday, February 13, 2010 Italian Kitchen Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate! Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice. I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. Comment on this reader review Christina 8 Overall rating 8 stars Food 9 | Service 9 | Atmosphere 8 | Value for money 7 Tuesday, December 22, 2009 Italian Kitchen I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening. We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they. The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers. I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation. Comment on this reader review 2 Overall rating 2 stars Food 2 | Service 1 | Atmosphere 3 | Value for money 2 Thursday, December 03, 2009 Italian Kitchen First came here 5 years ago food fantastic.Came to london with my husband for the weekend booked a table at this resturant and was very disappointed. Menu choice poor lasagne small and dry.Pizza tasteless I suggest you change your chef. We will not be back. Avoid .Wetherspoons do better pasta To be honest Italian restuarants are die in Italy too. Very few places know what and how to cook.If you wnt the best its 60 pounds minimum per person in Italy. This place at 7.95 is like one night they get it together the next night no. We eat here often, probably once a month, as it is near our office. There are endless alternatives but go back because it is like going to a local restaurant in Italy. It is informal and characterful. Food is a hobby and here it is simple food very well cooked. It is a place that encourages you to have a fun. relaxed, time. It's not Michelin star cooking but is all the better for it. It is only slightly dearer than a chain but much much better. Italian Kitchen is one of my and my husband's favourite restaurants. He's Italian and I've travelled round the country many times, so obviosuly we're very picky about our Italian restaurants, but this is one of the best affordable ones in London. The decor is quaint and charming and the staff are always friendly. I have always found my food to be delicious, be it pizza, pasta or a fish or meat dish. The wine selection is superb and I've never had a bad one in the many years I've been coming here, even when choosing from the cheaper end of the list. And as for the reviewer below who complained that her pizza had a thin base and was 'greasy' with very little cheese, well Italian pizzas are made with a thin crust and plenty of oil. Many varieties don't include lots of cheese either! How that comment made me laugh!! If you want thick crusted, cheese-laden Amercianized junk food with pineapple on top, order a takeaway. If you want a delicious, traditional Italian pizza then visit a fine Italian restaurant, such as Italian kitchen. I'd highly recommend a visit. Many of these Italian Restaurants will provide a wide selection of Italian food including Italian style pizza, Risotti and of course spaghetti bolognaise. Italian Restaurants in London and Italian Restaurants in Glasgow have the largest choices in our site. We have listed addresses, web sites, postcodes, opening times and various other information about all the Italian Restaurants in the UK. Please contact the Italian Restaurant using the information we provide if you are interested in visiting for an Italian meal or booking a seat when visiting the Italian Restaurant. Cocktail tables along the cliffs have full-on views of El Arco, making this the best place to toast to the sunset and another beautiful day in Los Cabos before moving to the candlelit dining room. Or merely remain outside, and enjoy dining alfresco. Italian Chef Emanuele Olivero has paid his dues in Los Cabos, with time at La Dolce in San José, at C in the Palmilla, and also at Pitahayas, before bringing his ideas to full fruition here at the Mona Lisa. The restaurant's four seasonal menus all depend on the ingredients that are in season at that particular time. How about ravioli filled with pumpkin, or La Paz blue crab covered with a cinnamon white sauce? Or seared halibut with crunchy polenta, sun-dried tomatoes, and asparagus tempura? Or go all out with the Grand Mona Lisa Tasting Menu, and try just about everything on their extensive menu. The restaurant is not really in the Corridor, but not really in town either; just a couple of miles up the hill—a short and relatively inexpensive taxi ride, well worth the trip for a sunset cocktail and dinner. Make sure you appreciate their Mona Lisa tile artwork both close-up and standing back a distance—an interesting optic illusion ensues. I was there the first week of June with a group of friends and dining under the stars with the sound of crashing waves was an amazing experience. We were all very impressed with the food and the presentation. I met the chef (can't remember his name) who told us about his previous experience in a two stars Michelin restaurant in London. He prepared for us a special testing menu accommodating one celiac in our group. I went back the day after with my wife as we had to have the Vulcano dessert one more time. Definitely a must have experience in Cabo. I could not disagree with the Fodor ratings more. The setting for this resturant is beautiful sitting on a bluff overlooking lands end and the city of Cabo, however just a wonderful as the setting the food was polar opposite. four of us dined and each of us we disappointed with their meals, fish undercooked, veggies overcooked, poor service. Perhapos we were there on a bad night, but a place like this should newver have a bad night, you would be much better served eating at Mi Casa or the Office For a time, I also wrote restaurant reviews, as my travels around Italy do require eating out often. I have stopped because I rarely go to the same place twice, and reviews do have to be confirmed from year to year. But I have decided to leave the reviews I did up, because they will at least provide hints of places to go. This page has reviews and restaurant suggestions for Florence & vicinity. In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level. I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate. For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip. The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended. Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it. Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day. Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see. It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad. Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up. Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together. Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage. The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this. Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian: "Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around. "The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori." "Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible. "Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time." People like me, who spend their evenings haunting vast, baroque dining establishments, puzzling over crowded, multipage menus and gorging (or trying not to gorge) on remorselessly similar variations of foie gras or molten-chocolate cake, often dream of escaping to a certain kind of restaurant. This imaginary restaurant is a neighborly place, tucked on an out-of-the-way street, where waiters aren’t excessively fawning and the prices aren’t excessively high. The room is big enough not to be poky, but not so big that you have to shout to be heard. There are no trendy circular lampshades hanging from the ceiling, no freakishly large flower arrangements sprouting to the sky. There is a bar to dine at, and possibly two. The food is various but not busy, and prepared in a way that highlights the ingredients instead of the vaunted skills of an egotistical chef. It’s a restaurant, in other words, where one would be happy to dine on an off night, on his own nickel, when it wasn’t his dubious professional duty to devour everything in sight. Bellavitae, which opened not long ago on a nondescript corner of Minetta Lane and Sixth Avenue in the Village, is this kind of place. The modest little Italian restaurant occupies a single long room, with a bar in the back for eating and one in the front for sipping wines. The floor is covered with wide wood planking, and the ceiling with countrified beams. The proprietor, Rolando Beramendi, supplies many of the city’s leading Italian restaurants with their fancy imported olive oils, pastas, and vinegars, and Bellavitae (the name is a mix of the Latin for “beautiful life” and “beautiful vines”) is designed to showcase these rarefied products. So there are jars of chestnut honey from Lake Como ($17) set up along the walls, slim bottles of ancient Leonardi balsamic vinegar (a 100-year-old bottle costs $500), and little bags of baldo and arborio rice ($4 and $4.75, respectively) supplied by a contessa from the Piedmont region of Italy. There’s even a photograph of the rice-growing contessa on the wall, along with a rogues’ gallery (grizzled vintners, merry honey-makers, etc.) of Mr. Beramendi’s other suppliers. If all this sounds a little precious, well, that’s because it is. Bellavitae is already a favorite haunt of delicate, food-obsessed souls who murmur over the quality of the green Nocellara olives (from Sicily) and the radicchio, which is state-inspected and picked by hand in the hills around Treviso. Unlike at some of the city’s other high-minded, ingredient-conscious foodie palaces, however, the menu here is presented casually, within the context of a familiar culinary tradition, and it’s relatively cheap. It’s the kind of straightforward, unfussy food that would send you into paroxysms of tourist glee if you came across it at a trattoria in the hills around Treviso, say. Like little pewter cocktail bowls filled with meatballs fried in extra-virgin olive oil, for instance, or grilled figs from Calabria bundled in strips of pancetta. There are toasty crostini also, layered with Gorgonzola drizzled with that chestnut honey from Lake Como or puréed chickpeas splashed with Sicilian olive oil and flakes of bottarga or stacked with chicken livers mashed, in the Tuscan style, with anchovies, garlic, and a trace of white-wine vinegar. I liked the chicken-liver crostini the best, and would have ordered another platter or two if my cholesterol-fixated wife hadn’t threatened to grapple me to the floor. I also liked the figs, and the fried risotto balls, which are meager in size (they look like Tater Tots) but laced with nice bits of tomato and mozzarella. Before the heftier courses arrive, it’s also possible to indulge in a good, milky buffalo mozzarella tangled with prosciutto, and a variety of chaste vegetable dishes designed, in high Greenmarket fashion, to be admired as much for their beauty as for their taste. I sampled a decent salad made with perfectly spiky wild arugula leaves, and a wet, slightly wan-tasting plate of chickpeas flavored, it seemed, with nothing very much at all. The very good, very green fava beans are served uncooked, with nuggets of pecorino cheese, and then there’s the fancy Treviso radicchio, which isn’t bulbous like radicchios of my acquaintance, or even terribly bitter, but soft, almost sweet (here it’s flavored with more balsamic), and twirled with ribbons of grilled pancetta. Unlike with the majority of brawny, overstuffed Italian restaurants these days, there are only four pasta dishes on the menu at Bellavitae, and four secondi courses, and they are more or less interchangeable as main courses. All the pastas I sampled were good, especially the thin tubes of egg garganelli tossed with an authentically beefy Bolognese ragù, chewy triangles of farro-based “pizzichi” pasta smothered in a rich porcini-mushroom-and-pancetta sauce, and a well-cooked bowl of bucatini piled with an assortment of shellfish. Among the secondi, my sliced steak could have been sliced thicker, and the tepid marinated sardines were obliterated by too many sweet onions. But the simple oven-baked pork fillet tasted fine, as did the chicken cacciatore, which was swimming in a rich tomato sauce filled with black Ligurian olives. There’s also a superior fritto misto, made with hunks of rabbit on one evening I visited and cod on another, and served, both times, with segments of fennel rolled in semolina and crunchy fried slices of Meyer lemon. The menu changes often at Bellavitae, but many of the more exotic ingredients (extra-virgin olive oils, caperberries from Sicily, etc.) are constant, and many of them are for sale. The prices of these items are listed on the back of the menu, and some of the waiters hawk them a little too profusely. But this didn’t seem to faze the eclectic crowd, which included, on one of the nights I dropped in, several gigantic members of the New York Giants football team, all taking prim bites of pasta and squinting curiously at the labels of obscure Italian wines. Presumably these discerning gentlemen enjoyed the desserts, which are unfussy and agreeably Italian. There are wedges of spongy panettone, a dense slab of chocolate semifreddo dribbled with hazelnut liqueur, and a creamy, perfectly wobbly panna cotta doused with a grape essence called saba. Best of all are the gelati, which come drowned in espresso or infused with lemon marmalade and a mini shot of grappino (grappa flavored with Meyer lemons). Taste them delicately, like we weary gourmet professionals are taught to do, or do the natural thing and devour them whole. This lists my favorite restaurants in Philadelphia. It's shamelessly biased toward center city and the area around Penn, and towards good food. All restaurants listed here are quite reliable, unless otherwise noted. The absence of a restaurant from the list might just mean I haven't made it there yet, especially if it is on the Eastern side of Broad -- but it often means something else. Many popular or well-known restaurants are not listed here; See references at the bottom of the page for more "commercial" guides and contact information for places like the Chart House or cheesesteak or steak places. We were a party of six visiting Moda on Fri 12th Feb 2010. Having heard mixed reports we were not quite sure of what to expect. What a pleasant surprise we got. The food was fantastic, for which we complimented the chef. The atmosphere and hospitality was warm and welcoming and the service was excellent. My partner is Italian and he was very impressed with everything. We had a truly brilliant evening and the duo playing music made the night even better. We cannot wait to go again and highly recommend it to everyone, you won't be disappointed. Cannot understand some of the previous poor reviews we've read. Well done Moda, keep up the good work. Had a last minute impromptu Sunday evening meal here. The service was a little rushed and I felt somewhat hurried with my meal. The actual quality of the food was reasonable but there was nothing out of the ordinary for an Italian restaurant. It was a nice surprise when we found there was a discount of 50% on the main meals as it was a promotional night. Good food, good service, nice atmosphere, well priced My wife and I went to Moda restaurant for a birthday celebration on my friend’s recommendation on Sat. night and was totally surprise to find such a butiful restaurant in the middle of Hucknall.What a décor and set up? It is amazing. Food is great (I could see through an open kitchen how the food was prepared) Atmosphere was fantastic, service was first class, price are reasonable. Try the desserts they are out of this world especially their home made panna cotta .I must admit it was one of the best restaurant I ever visited. Highly recommend it .I will go back again worth the travelling. i live in Hucknall so wanted to support this local restaurant. i was nicely surprised. The food is gorgeous and reasonably priced, they also do meal offers during the week. Clean, friendly , lovely atmosphere and fab food, just what Hucknall needs. If you can’t decide between dinner, drinks or a spot of art appreciation, then make a beeline for Cielo. Combining a restaurant, late-licence lounge bar and art gallery, this new Mayfair Italian boasts pale, elegant interiors and a mezzanine space complete with retractable glass roof. There's a Sardinian-influenced menu (think seafood pasta and pancetta-wrapped lamb fillet stuffed with rosemary and black truffles), an Italian-only wine list and creative works from artists who are both up-and-coming and established. Whatever the weather, life seems a little bit sunnier in this new, splendidly pink deli and patisserie in the ‘Chelsea beach’ area of the Fulham Road. Decked out in fabric-draped walls, with Victorian lanterns and lively blues background music, drop in any time of day to pick from a menu that caters for every need, from eggs Benedict, via freshly baked cakes and buns, to heartier dishes like casseroles, fishcakes and steaks. Very busy restaurant serving good Italian food. House wine at £21 gives a clue, but the staff are friendly, and seem happy working at a frenetic pace. Office party season ensured the place was jumping! This is a great little restaurant halfway down Frith St, not far from Leicester Square tube station. The staff are full of energy and always loud, welcoming like a long lost friend. You are immeadiatly made to feel welcome. The food is magnificant, a touch on the expensive side, especially if you have a few glasses from their extensive wine list, but worth it. Tucked away down Frith Street in Soho is this little gem - Little Italy, and having been there several times now, we know it as The Little Italy (yes it really is that good!). Though a little pricy, you definitely get what you pay for: the service is second to none with friendly, knowledgable and attentive bar staff, and marinated olives and peanuts in generous portions on the bar (which are instantly refilled!). Once you have had a few drinks, they bring out hot food for you to enjoy at the bar, plate after plate of wonderful succulent prawns in chilli and other delicacies. These they will keep bringing until you can either eat or drink no more, or both! This beauty is a must for anyone passing through Soho, whether simply for a quick drink or to make an evening of, it comes highly reccommended. You will not be disappointed! i have been to this small restaurant on one occasion and found the quality of the food very appetising and tasty. The service was fantastic the staff are quite quick with order's and are very friendly towards to you and make you feel welcome. i would suggest this restaurant is expensive although its worth every penny. Only disadvantage is that it is small and probably could get busy when there is higher demand of customers. So the small little restaurant down the side road of Leicester square doesn’t look like the best night out but how wrong could I have been! Free food was provided all night at the bar which was so good! The entire bar staff where fun and very entertaining, great music and not to expensive! I have not been back for a meal but based on the food provided at the bar I would not hesitate to highly recommend it! There's a couple of leather couches at the front of this restaurant which are perfect relaxing with a big glass of wine after work. However, I do find the menu is generally overpriced across food and wine and what should be a relatively laid-back, inexpensive evening aways ends in disappointment when the bill arrives! I just don't feel you get value for money here... Really good little haunt of media types, this. The Italian tapas idea is excellent, as the food lends itself to small, shareable taster plates. The restaurant is small and narrow with some couches at the front - don't go downstairs unless you have to. Service is polite and efficient. The wine list is tasty, even at the cheap end, and the food is really delicious. Layered aubergine, chicken wrapped in parma ham, veal and black olive meatballs, various pasta dishes, lots of prawns and calamari and various vegetable dishes are all excellent. Try and save room for the Italian cheese plate at the end. Even if you only go for the cheaper options, you'll struggle to escape without spending £30 a head, but it's well worth it. Wooden shiny polished tables and chairs, wouldn't say its cosy but the atmosphere is fantastic. The staff were very attentive and friendly. The portions of food are generous! they were really filling. They offer a wide selection of wines and also suggest which ones would be more suitable for different courses, which topped it all off! This is a brilliant concept - Italian tapas - and unsurprisingly it's hugely popular with local office workers and the post-work crowd. By the door, there are lovely leather sofas to relax and pass the time on, while the restaurant has about 30 covers. When ordering, you choose a selection of dishes at any one time, and while you're waiting you'll be brought delicious, thin crisp bread drizzled with olive oil. The petite pasta dishes and mixed meat platters are especially good. Very friendly waiters, entertaining to say the least! The food was excellent and generous portions. Great value. Great service. Great atmosphere. Ideal for couples, families or even eating on your own. If seeing a show I recommend coming here first, makes the night even more special. Will definately be going back. Excellent food very reasonable prices. Waiters very entertaining and made everyone welcome. Book to avoid disappointment. Wonderful atmosphere very friendly. Will be back again soon! A very cute restaurant, which is much bigger than it looks. Bottles hang in baskets from the ceiling, the tables are cosily close, and the Italian staff are always happy to help. The decorations add to the feel of the place, and the wall near the door covered in notes of different currencies is a nice touch. Good food and good atmosphere, and very well located - a nice place to have a meal. Is in the heart of londons soho, ive been here on many occasions the food is superb and keeps me going back to more. The food is very filling i would suggest you order as you go along if you aint too sure. The staff were very friendly with classic italian personality's to set the theme! A lovely traditional Italian restaurant. If you like Veal, go here, it's absolutle wonderful. The staff are really friendly and the atmosphere is lively yet relaxing. The place to go if you want a special night. Great atmosphere, lovely food, been there a few times and its always good! friendly staff and prices are reasonable..AND you have to try the Tiramisu! - beautiful! This place is amazing, lovely food, excellent service, and a nice friendly atmosphere! I'm going back again soon!! I loved this resturant. Not only was the staff friendly, but the place was breath taking. Loved the candles and the light effects. The food was excellent and the portions was a good size. The price of the food was very resonable too. I would recommend sofias to anyone and it is a great place to eat out for couples. Well I have to say the previous review is very, very wrong! I have just come back from a spectacularly bad meal at this restaurant. The food was free from flavour (and swimming in grease). The candle holder on the table was broken with shattered glass lying just waiting to cut someone and the waiting staff were not concerned by this! The wine was from 2 litre bottles that obviously cost £3.00 or less (we saw the waiting staff filling the glasses with this rot) DO NOT GO TO SOFIAS! It is bad and you will pay through the nose for the experience. £70 for 2 courses. I have paid less at better restaurants. The place is a bad joke stuck in the 70's. Their menus have not been changed in 20 years, literally the menus are the same. The only updated thing is the cost and that is as over inflated as the housing market. What is with the dragon? This is the worst restaurant I have ever been to. Don't go. Sofia's is one of my favourite food places ever....the service is AMAZING! the food is just the best ITALIAN food i have ever tasted! the music,candles.mirrors and the setting is perfectly romantic and relaxing and you soon forget you are in the west midlands.......my friends family and children go every year for my birthday and even the staff sing happy birthday to you!!! thank you sofia's for a superb birthday this year, I wouldn't want to be anywhere else! went here for a romantic meal with my hubby, it was a beautiful restaurant the decor is wonderful i especially loved the little waterfall and colourful fish. the food was excellent, hot and very tasty no complaints about the food at all and the service was 5 star our waiter was extremely polite and saw to our every need, we wil definatly be going back. prices are very good £12 for a starter a main course you cant complain about that can you? if i was forced to critise anything al i would say is the tables could be a little further away from each other lol other wise i highly reccommend this place to anyone whether it be a romantic meal for 2, family evening out or if your getting the family together for birthdays ect Friday 8th February four of us went to Sofia's for a rare night out - we had read and heard mixed reviews. What a fabulous night - polite, friendly and attentive staff expecially Lex our waiter. We had three courses each and plenty of wine and the bill only came to £95.00. The food is superb, lots of variety and good sized helpings. The actual building is lovely and the back garden where we went for a sneaky cigarette extremely pleasant. Thanks all at Sofia's for a great night all round. When one of the country's most respected and leading critics says that a restaurant in this group is 'the best Italian Restaurant outside London' it is time to take them seriously. Britain's love affair with Italian food is a cause célèbre of long standing and shows no signs of waning, so it is always welcome news when somewhere like San Carlo sets out to reach for the skies. Located in the heart of Bristol, San Carlo is well suited to catch both day and night time business, and the menu reflects this. There are 147 different dishes, plus blackboard specials, offering snacks, meals, celebrations, all in true Italian style, dishes that bring Italy into the very centre of life in the city. San Carlo is one of a chain of similar restaurants, yet each one has its own personality. The San Carlo at Bristol was the second in the group to be developed, emphasizing clearly that a San Carlo is not a theme restaurant but a highly lavish exclusive Italian venue for people who appreciate fine food, good service, luxurious and comfortable surroundings, as well as value for money. Favourite dishes include marinated Tuscan beef in extra virgin olive oil with porcini and topped with flakes of Parmesan cheese, and that old favourite of connoisseurs the world over, pan fried breast of chicken with spicy Italian sausage, fine chopped peppers, sun brushed tomatoes with white wine and a touch of tomato sauce. Many of the ingredients to create these dishes are imported from Italy, and it goes without saying that the wine list is unashamedly and spectacularly of the same origin. A combination of Italian cuisine and fish has always seemed logical - all that coastline - as well as highly attractive to the British taste. The antipasti at San Carlo include fresh oysters, mussels marinière, tuna carpaccio and barbeque spare ribs. Amongst the main courses expect to find on the blackboard Dover sole, either grilled or Colberg, fresh halibut, sea bass, a mixed grill of fish, salmon in lobster sauce, lobster Thermidor or tagliolini and shellfish Mediterraneo. It is customary to look for Italian wines in such places, nor will you be disappointed, but there are a few French inclusions also, with a rather nice Chablis in evidence. House wines, and few off the list, are available by the glass. Service is a good example of that Italian 'just make yourself at home we'll look after everything' manner, when you generally surprise yourself by taking their advice. In Britain we just say 'no problem', which may be succinct, but lacks style. Groups are welcome at San Carlo, but to preserve the balance between groups, a limit of up to nine people applies on Friday and Saturday, and twenty to thirty on weekdays. Booking will always make for security but in general the arrangements mean there is room for everybody. It is worth remembering that you will have the best service and advice from their Italian Directors and staff throughout. Ultimately a restaurant is judged by two main factors, each dependent upon the other. Combine quality food with life's movers and shakers in attractive surroundings and you have a sure fire record for the sweet buzz of success that permeates San Carlo. Visited here on Saturday for a late lunch and have to say it is the worst service I have ever received in any restaurant. 15 minutes after being seated I eventually asked a waitress if we could order some drinks….only to be rewarded with an extremely dirty look, how dare I have the audacity to request service! We ordered bread and olives which took 15 minutes to materialize and then a further lengthy wait for our main courses. The food was decent enough but not that good to compensate for the abysmal service. We then ordered 2 espressos and a tia maria coffee, were delivered 2 cold espressos and a glass of tia maria, complained about this and was offered more coffee (how may espressos can you drink) and was eventually delivered the tia maria coffee. The Manager was charming and didn't charge us for the wine and coffees by way of compensation but this does not make up for the fact that the place is staffed by surly unhelpful staff who have poor service down to a fine art, the sooner they are issued their P45 the better. I would not eat at Centotre again nor would I recommend it to anyone. Just taking the time to write to you show how very disappointed I was to have tried to eat in this restaurant. We live in Germany and during a visit to Edinburgh we took some Friends for dinner. I cannot remember having ever had such bad quality Food and Service in my life… I can say, I have been in most of the Countries in this world, not even in the poorest ones, I have had such disgusting food and appalling Service! I think it gives a very bad image to the very friendly Scottish People to have such Restaurant in the heart of a beautiful city like Edinburgh. To say I was disappointed would be a total understatement. We arrived and were ignored for about 10 mins before approaching a member of staff about getting a table. Should have seen this as a sign to walk straight out. Sat down and then despite actually asking for menus from 2 waitresses they both ignored us. The waitress actually looked annoyed that I had the audacity to ask her the question in the first place as she was busy shining glasses. We then ordered 2 glasses of white wine that had clearly been sat for too long - warm and tasted corked. When we asked for these to be replaced the waitress was extremely rude and did not apologise. We simply got a very dirty look - if I am paying £6 for a glass then I think I am entitled to ask for another if I feel it is corked. I would not reccommend this place to anyone. The cooks clearly are doing a brilliant job because the food is very good - unfortunately the service from the waitress overshadows the whole experience. They actually seemed more interested in laying tables than tending to us. And then they had the audacity to charge us for 4 glasses of wine! Outside I believe there is a sign which states something like service served with a smile etc.. trade description act comes to mind... If anyone asks I will be letting them know about my experience - I just wish I had checked reviews myself before going. Please don't do it to yourselves! Fraser, unhappy Centotre customer, Edinburgh Food OK eventually but service terrible. Quiet Monday night. Arrived at 9pm and finally got my steak at 10pm. Had to send it back as they hadn't cooked it properly (was still very rare). All in all, not impressed and would not go again. I read the reviews posted on your site and felt I had to write one too, because the others were so untrue of my experience! I recently took my family for a meal at Centotre and was absolutely thrilled - what a gorgeous setting! The staff really looked after us, which is a tough thing to do because I have three messy young children who are easily distracted and I'm a self confessed picky eater! There are too many places nowadays which sacrifice good food for being trendy or stylish or whatever else people think restaurants should be like. Centotre is just not like that. Big Italian family portions and delicious flavours in every dish. I was sorry I didn't have room for pudding! I would highly reccommend a visit to Centotre for everyone who enjoys their food. (Especially good when served with great wine and good company...) I have eaten twice at this restaurant and on both occasions the service was appalling. The first occasion was dinner for a friend's birthday. We were put at a table just inside the door and had people who were queuing for tables crammed up against us for the majority of our meal. The service was slow. I asked for a well done steak and was told the chef didn't like cooking well done steaks but they would see what they could do (I really dislike this kind of pretentiousness). I was eventually served a rare steak which was fatty accompanied by a wilting salad. The other diners at my table were equally unimpressed with their food. The waitress brought our wine and couldn't use the cork screw (not because she didn't have the strength but, unbelievably, because she didn't know how to use a cork screw). She then stood giggling next to our table while one of us opened the bottle for her. Well the chef may not like cooking well done steaks but perhaps the customers don't like having to train their staff on the job!! We left and went to another restaurant for coffee. On the next occasion we took a friend for lunch (Centotre was his choice). We waited so long for our meal to be served he had to go return to work before it arrived. The rest of us were treated to a decidedly average lunch. I would not eat at Centotre again. I have read the other reviews and had a different experience. I was invited to a business meeting at Centotre which is always a great way to experience where to eat in Edinburgh (i.e. the cost is not coming out of your own pocket so you are more likely to be relaxed about trying new places!). I loved the building, I thought the ‘bistro’ style of the tables and chairs let it down though. Also all the tables were packed in like sardines – I could have helped myself quite easily to the neighbouring tables condiments!. There was little privacy therefore and felt a bit too much like a pub meal atmosphere. The prices were expensive but I though, perhaps it will live up to the cost with the food….it did not in my case I am afraid. I had chargrilled chicken on a salad with a garlic and lemon mayonnaise. The chicken was very dry and overcooked, the salad had been dressed too early and was wilting and there was far too much mayonnaise – it was over powering. The service was good though, friendly, attentive without being over eager but swift enough. Unfortunately, when I left virtually all my dinner no-one asked me if it was OK which would have given me a opportunity to comment without the embarrassment of having to raise it separately. At this time I would not recommend it to anyone. Writing to let you know how disappointed we were with our visit to Centotre. Food was good but 3 times I had to tell over keen waiting staff that we were not finished and could they please not remove our plates. Clearly when plates are half full, people are chatting and cutlery is not together on the plates - PEOPLE ARE NOT FINISHED. We were so cheesed off with this that we did not stay for dessert or even a coffee, what a shame as a table of 5 would spend quite a bit! Having looked at other comments, we are not the first to complain about the staff at this restuarant. It does not do George Street justice! Food not at all bad - but service appalling. Ages before anyone took our order. Ages to arrive. No sign of the drinks. Waiters telling us it wasn't their floor area. Empty plates (starters) in front of us for ages (a shift change was to blame apparently). Manager not in the least bit interested when we took the trouble to explain our experience on the way out Been 3 times to Centotre. The first two times weren't bad. The food was decent although can be pricey depending what you pick. The 3rd time was atrocious - mostly due to the service. We arrived at the same time as 3 other tables. Initally we were asked to wait at the bar. Then another waitress came running over and told us no-one was allowed to sit at the bar on a Saturday. So they took us to a table downstairs where we waited 20 minutes for our order to be taken. Our starters never arrived and we had to ask for our main-courses which arrived 55 minutes after we ordered. They then put the wrong amount through on our card when paying, and so we were even further delayed. When we were leaving we found that the bar was full of people sitting at it There are some cute touches in Jamie Oliver's new high-street Italian: a man wanders about with a great long bread-board of balsamic-sprinkled parmesan for the people waiting. Except we wouldn't need to be waiting, were it not for the totally uncute touch that you can't book. Oxford trenchermen queue round the block, just to be allowed into the indoors queue, which itself doesn't promise you a table in under an hour. I'll tell you what about quaint university towns: they are never so swamped with nice restaurants that people refuse to be treated like this. Too many libraries and branches of Past Times. The menu is written with a chumminess slightly more nauseating than actual Pedigree Chum: 'good old grilled steak', 'my favourite humble green salad', 'why not upgrade your olive oil?' It's like watching the process of aspiration from the other side; rightly or wrongly, Jamie Oliver seems to have decided that everyone wants to be him. The whole set-up, from its late-youth, exposed-steel-beams industrial interior to its 'Hey, you can appreciate the Tuscan without being, like, Tony Blair, man', is rooted in the idea that we don't just want to eat his food, we want to find a warm place in his psyche and dwell there. Yet of course none of that matters if it tastes nice, and some of it does. A and I shared a meat antipasti platter (£6.50 a head), which consisted of mortadella (it's the ironist's choice, isn't it? Looks like a post-surgical dressing, tastes like the 1970s, and yet it's cool because it's Italian. Having said all that, I do quite like it), finocchiona (fennel salami), bresaola, prosciutto and two small balls of the best, most yielding and delicate mozzarella I've ever had outside Rome. Plus a bland root-vegetable salad (looked like it should have been pickled, but wasn't) and a pecorino with too much sweet-chilli sauce on it for me to tell you with confidence what it tasted like (though given the mozzarella it was probably delicious). This was a lot of fun, and fairly priced. The long, thin antipasti board is propped up on tins of tomatoes, the staff are informal and sweet, there's an atmosphere of holiday charm and disorder that has been ruthlessly systematised. I know I'm giving out some mixed messages: it's fun one minute and ruthless the next. There is plenty of delight in the ingredients and a fair amount of skill in the execution, which is what it's meant to be about. But I can't shake an aftertaste of cynicism, a sense that he's playing us all like a violin. A's baked organic Shetland salmon (£13.50) had been incredibly slowly cooked, so that it ended up with an almost mousse-like texture, which I don't like but do recognise is a matter of taste. Its bed of vegetables, mainly fennel and small yellow tomatoes, was more objectively so-so; it looked watery, and A said, sadly, 'It's like something you might be given at a friend's house.' I had the 'lamb chops scorched fingers' (£13.85), which were nice and unpretentious, with a fresh but rather mainstream dressing (it called itself 'Italian mint sauce' - I think it just meant 'salsa verde with not much garlic, while the hoi polloi get used to the idea'). Fourteen quid was steep for three chops, I thought. We shared the 'ultimate chocolate banana brownie' (£4.65), and it was so sweet I'm getting a sugar flashback now - like a hash brownie, only instead of a psychedelic experience I had a headache and my tongue stuck to the roof of my mouth. There's a reason people use nuts instead of bananas - you need something to cut through the chocolate, not unite with it and gang up on your glycaemic reading. Ach, the place isn't that bad. It's certainly not boring, it's not penny-pinching (or at least not very), and some of the salads whizzing past looked gorgeous. I just worry about Jamie's self-belief. It's too much; it makes you want to go to McDonald's. A warm welcome and a nice atmosphere in Lamora. 
The first thing to hit us as we entered Gusto was the noise - not from oppressive background music but simply a result of the hub-bub from the large number of diners present.

Gusto is likely to be a 'Marmite' type of place - you will either love it or hate it. Running virtually the length of the restaurant is a long table with tall stools either side making a somewhat different dining arrangement. Fear not if this is not your style as there a more conventional tables all around the place.

The extensive menu features a conventional range of Italian favourites. Service was friendly and efficient. The food well cooked and whilst first impressions were of somewhat meagre portions we left with very full stomachs.

For us the only downside was the price of wine - some fairly steep mark-ups - but this was offset by the good value of the food.

Overall lively and friendly with good food and a restaurant to which we will return.

I used to say I couldnt fault this place......but unfortunately that has changed a little. The food is always absolutely amazing, as is the service, but I recently went there with my fiance on Valentines Day to be met with a bad experience! To start off the night we sat down to a set menu, hadnt been told this on the phone when pre-booking as perhaps that might have changed my mind about going there in the first place. So when the waitress informed us it was set menu only we told her wed have to think about it as we may decide to go elsewhere. She left the table with nothing to say, and just as we were ready to leave she came over with the main menus and quite casually informed us we could order from the main menu. Shouldnt you be able to go to your favourite resturaunt and order anything you want from the menu......regardless of it being Valentines Day? After we ordered food our appetisers were brought out, and we then asked the waitress for a bottle of wine......when she returned to the table there was no attempt to even ask if we wanted to try the wine, and when we said thankyou there was no acknowledgement, as if her service was a given or something? As we ate no attempt was made to check if our meal was okay she just persisted to stalk the tables waiting for an empty plate or glass.........and sighing pretty obviously in the passing!!!! Ive never felt so happy about walking away from a meal having not tipped, and as I left the table my Fiance asked if we could get a single rose as she had layed roses on every other table except ours.........to be told ---Sorry its for people who ate off the set menu only---- Overall a bit gutted, but I will return......lets just hope the rude american waitress doesnt serve us next time?? 

I can't fault this place....the food, the service and the atmosphere are very good
I asked for a hot penne picante and I got exactly that........a hot/spicy pasta dish - not even the Italian restaurants I have eaten in made it this tasty or hot! It’s not over priced as you would expect from a restaurant on George Street, Edinburgh. I have recommended Gusto's to a few friends and organised a corporate dinner here too - everyone was very happy: highly recommended.
I've eaten at alot of Edinburgh's good restaurants (Olorosso, Atrium, Wildfire), visiting for business over the last year and the meal I had tonight was the best meal I've had in Edinburgh.
Gusto looks fairly small from outside, its not until you get inside that you see how big it is.
The food was gorgeous, the service was excellent and the whole place had a great atmosphere.#
This was my third time back to Gusto and it never disappoints - great food.
A party of 10 of us visited Gusto this weekend. From the start they provided poor service from us. First of all asking us all for a £5 deposit per person, and generally making us feel unwelcome. We were offered a set menu from which there was a decent choice. The food was pretty decent, but nothing spectacular.

The service was what let this place down. When the bill came at the end they had failed to take off the deposits, had charged us for drinks which they'd given us for free (since it was a celebtaration the bride and brides mother got a free cocktail), proceeded to put a whopping service charge on top of the bill too. the poor waiteer who had to deal with the mess must've had his head spinning. The manager wasn't very discreet when we tried to sort out the bill either. Most unhelpful, I certainly wouldn't reccommend this place to anyone, and won't be going back there.
Enjoyed my meal here but nothing stood out. The atmosphere was OK, food was OK, service was OK but going in the door it looks really trendy and slick and I was just expecting more. It's very popular - packed full of people and would be a nice place to come for a bite to eat after work.

I suppose I just think it was quite expensive for what it was - I've certainly had far better meals for a lot cheaper. I couldn't help feeling it was glorified pub grub on Michelin Star money.

We turned up at the resturant without a reservation at 6.45pm and the place was packed. The maitre de was quite arrogant and didn't even say hello when we entered just summoned a waitress to take us to a table.

We were seated at the back and there was no air conditioning so it felt quite stuffy.

My boyfriend ordered a pizza and when it arrived it was HUGE - lovely tomato sauce and a thin crispy base. I had the spagetti Cabonara which was LOVELY one of the best that I have eaten (and I have eaten a lot!)

Our waiter could not have been more friendly or helpful and he made up for the more than frosty first impression of the place.

There seemed to be a lot of groups but also couples. Quite dark inside but didn't really bother us.
The interior of this restaurant is great and the seating arrangements are good for intimate nights out or supper with friends.
The menu is what you would expect for a chain, but it is good quality and extremley tasty. I ordered a pizza which was fresh and delicious, the topping was plentiful, as if i have made it at home.
Our waitress was friendly and polite and attentive, but not in your face.
Really liked this place, very good for people watching.

Evidently popular, the restaurant claims some Italian connection - but what we ate was not representative of anything Italian that I have ever eaten.

Reception staff were wonderfully friendy with bright spontaneous smiles. Waiting and bar staff also impressed with good service attitude. However, noise level made ordering and communication difficult - why DO so many places feel the need to pollute the accoustic environment with thumping noise?? It is little wonder that orders get garbled and customers are brought things that they did not order. Especially so when staff and/or clients are not native English speakers. Clients come in to eat, not listen to noise. ... then again, perhaps the music IS the main attraction?

Although our table was pre-booked, it was not ready when our group arrived and we had a wait before we were seated.

Both starter and main course were ruined by excessive application of gound pepper.
The bruschetta starter was a bland slice of white bread with finely chopped tomatoes and ground pepper piled onto it.
Although I ordered a 'medium', my steak was well-done and dry. No sauce was served (or offered) with the steaks and many in our large party commented that the meal was disppointingly bland and dry.
Dessert was lemon sorbet - which was tart, bitter and unpleasant.

The restaurant was busy, apparently well-run and the service was good. It seems a pity to report that the weak link was in the kitchen.
Well priced food, attentive staff with a gorgeous interior

From the time we arrived until the time we left the experience was wonderful. This was our first time in Edinburgh and Gusto's made our stay. The staff made us feel as if we were the only customers in the restaurant. The food was wonderful and Andy the general manager and the waiting staff made us feel very welcome nothing was to much trouble
chain italian why there are lots of nice italians!
Vast and busy on a Friday night, for low-end Italian fare. Your typical George Street experience.

This was a rather average meal, I had the mussel and squid spaghetti and my partner had the lobster spaghetti. The mussel pasta was an extremely small portion but was quite good. The lobster was well presented but overcooked to the extent that it was tough. We shared the cinnamon figs with vanilla mascarpone for dessert. It was served on a soft and rubbery biscuit and was disappointing. The service was prompt and pleasant, though. The restaurant was very busy and must be quite popular, it is in a very good location.
Good Italian Restaurant from the Est Est Est stable
très chic!
I found this restaurant through searching for it on my google phone and as it was near to where we were staying we thought we would try it out. The service was spot on and the food was fantastic. A great relaxing atmosphere in a superb location makes it a perfect place for couples or large groups of people.‎
We ate here with our kids twice and were a bit disappointed after the 2nd time, to the extent that we probably won't hurry back. The food was so-so, but the bit that peed us off was that we got stuck in an upstairs backwater even though there were plenty of tables elsewhere - even when we left. This wouldn't have bothered us at all, as we guessed it was cos of the kids and to be honest it's always a bit more relaxing when you know you're not spoiling anyone's meal - but because of where we were we got really poor service - with our initial ordering, then drinks taking forever, and bits missing off the meal - to find a waitress one of us had to traipse up and down stairs through the restaurant etc etc. End result was a crap meal with everyone leaving a bit grumpy. If the food was up to it you would suffer a bit of hassle - maybe - but it was pretty ordinary.‎
Took my partner and our 1yr old to Vitoria on Leith Walk and had a really lovely meal. Staff couldn't have been more helpful even tho it was a busy Sunday afternoon and we had a push chair. Manager made a point of making sure we were hapy with everything and the waiting staff were efficient as well as being friendly. Food was delicious - proper Italian fare - brushetta really nice and proper pasta. I had their seafood pasta which was excellent with the squid done just right. And the kids menu was only £1 which included a juice and a scoop of icecream. They donate £1 to charity for the kids menu. Couldn't fault it would recommend for family lunch or dinner.
It is OK, nothing special.

I have been to a handful of countries and all around the UK a handful of times, however, this restaurant is THE BEST I have ever been to. Especially due to the quality of food. The atmosphere isn't outrageously fancy but the food is the best food I've ever had. I don't even like Italian food! I know that this will be my first stop when I return to Scotland.

I only have three meals in my entire life that I constantly think back about how fabulous it was and two of those dishes came from the restaurant. After my friend and I had breakfast hear we decided to go over our food budget and eat at Vittoria for the rest of our trip.

This is my favourite Italian restaurant.The atmosphere is relaxed and the staff are so nice and friendly nothing is too much trouble for them.I love to sit and relax with a beer at the bar area near the front door after I've had my meal and soak up the atmosphere.I love when the staff speak in Italian,it's like being in Italy for a moment.

I was very skeptical to find great Italian in Scotland but this was amazing and well priced. The menu had something for everyone and the wait staff was very friendly.

Food was average price, with the lunch menu being much better value. The full-price pizzas were expensive (mine was £10.95) but delicious. Generously topped with high-quality ingredients and a very good size! Soup was also excellent, but the best was yet to come. My companion ordered Maple pecan cheesecake and it was excellent value; a very large slice with cream AND ice-cream with 2 wafers for £3.95! Plus it was very tasty. They also have a very good selection of ice-cream. Service was very efficient and friendly. We would definately go again :)


Really great Italian food in an intimate venue, if you have a large group you are better to go to the sister restaurant on George IV bridge. The balsamic steak is amazing.

In the summer you can sit outside and watch the world go by, this place has good food at a great price, highly recommended.

on new years eve "eve" and new years day my wife and i ate at vittoria in the evening,we didnt book on either occassion but the staff did their best to accomodate us even though the place was very busy,over the two nights we had various pasta dishes, and starters of stuffed mushrooms and whitebait all well cooked and delicious,the only fault was that the one dish was left standing whilst waiting to be served and therefore had to be sent back to be reheated. we would definately recommend this restaurant and will definately visit next ttime we are in edinburgh

Went with big group. Very busy lunchtime service. Food average to good but service was very good. Usual Italian buzz.

The menu here has everything from traditional italian, lite bites, breakfasts, hamburgers, pizza, curries. Great if you can't decide what you want to eat but i have never had anything that tasted fantastic.


best Italian in Edinburgh


You need to book - it is always busy - a good sign in itself! Great food that is hot and can be relied upon to be good quality and great value for money.

The staff are good, and as it is always full of locals not tourists, so you know you are onto a winner.

The lasange is great - a bit sloppy which is always good, and defintely save room for icecream! A friend had a t-bone steak which was huge and tasty and cooked perfectty.

Cannot praise highly enough! There can sometimes be big groups in, but it all adds to the atmosphere!

Vittorias on George 1V Bridge is brilliant!!

The food, staff and relaxed atmosphere really make this place special. We eat here regularly as we live in Edinburgh and we also go for special occasions.

The waiters all sing Happy Birthday to customers - and make any special event something to remember! Nothing is too much trouble.

The coffee is probably the best in Edinburgh in my opinion.

great for family dining


My husband and I dined here twice during our long-weekend trip to Edinburgh. The service was attentive, and the manager remembered us on our return trip. The restaurant's interior is very hip, and as it grew later on Friday and Saturday, the atmosphere got very lively. My husband and I prefer quieter settings, so we were glad we were there earlier. if you like livelier settings, you might find the later, more popular dining hours a lot of fun.

The first trip we both loved our food. My husband said it (chicken with mushrooms in a cream sauce) was the best meal he had had in the U.K. He even went up and complimented the manager and informed him that we learned about the restaurant on Trip Advisor. My chicken with eggplant (aubergine) and mozzarella was delicious as well.

The second night my husband wisely ordered the same dish and enjoyed it again. I, unfortunately, branched out and tried a steak dish and upgraded it to a fillet. I ordered it medium, but it came out charred. The took it back, but again it came out very well done. I was disappointed and ate less than half of it. However, I was so impressed when they took my fillet off of the bill! I am sure they knew I was not pleased with it, but we did not ask them to take it off he bill. Their customer service was excellent, and we would definitely go back when we return to Edinburgh. I would stick to the chicken though.

I was so impressed with our server and the manager. If they read these postings, again I would like to say thank you!

The also had a wonderful dessert menu that included over a dozen flavors of ice cream and multiple sundae combinations. They had at least a dozen dessert options beyond ice cream. Next time I will try the chocolate mousse.

Both times, we dined at the location on the bridge.

Quality italian dishing out authentic fare, amore!


Really good food and fast service but the waiters did not speak english really well


Fabulous food - fabulous service - fabulous music

Delicious food.

great for prosecco and antipasti if we have a summer again........

Food was OK but not great, service poor.

I go here for a smoked salmon and scrambled egg breakfast with my pal, Caroline, and her wee boy quite often as it's pretty child friendly.

Nice family retreat

after the pub... if your near!

good cheap Italian food, friendly atmosphere

Great atmosphere, great food and very reasonably priced

My mother's favourite.

lush, expensive

Friendly Italian

Brilliant

Pretty good Italian food, reasonably priced.

GReat value and atmosphere

Was set up with pavement patio years before the smoking ban came in. Good italian food and a bottle of wine for a lovely sunny lunch. HUGE inside. Ideal for big tables.

Good food, Excelent Service

Fantastic in the summer for people watching... and brilliant in the winter for its warm and friendly service. Great food, nice wine... it's a staple for any Edinburgh person's diet.

Oh yes - sunny day, bottle of wine, Vittoria. Do It!

Overall, I thought the service sytem strange here. Everyone seemed to have a specific task. This can backfire if someone is slacking or forgets. After our meal was done we waited 30 minutes to be asked what we wanted for dessert. the only reason we were asked this was because someone thought we hadnt been served our dinners yet and proceeded to set our table agin for a meal. We told him we were actually waiting to see a dessert menu. The food was good, but there are flaws with the service. Still an okay restarant. probably a rare event.‎

I have eaten in Ciao Roma twice now, went with friends for a birthday a while ago and just have a lovely meal with my partner at the weekend. Both times the food was gorgeous, and the friendly service is so relaxing. The restaurant is warm and cosy, it looks much smaller from the street but opens out with an open kitchen at the back. If you go you have to try some of their home-made Ice Cream-even just buy a tub to take home with you! All in all a great place for a big group (we were in the private dining room) or a relaxed meal for two.‎]

Very good, nice atmosphere with accommodating service. When walking through to the men’s room I was amazed at the sheer size of the place. Enormous!

We went to Ciao Roma last week, and found it to be a great night! I saw a few bad reviews so I felt I had to contradict them. I love dining out, and have travelled to Italy also on many occasions, and we found the food and atmosphere of Ciao Roma captured the quality of fine Italian cooking and service perfectly.
We were greeted warmly at the door by the owner, Franco Martone, and received the same attention throughout the meal.
Its a family run, friendly place, where everything is home-made, including the best Tiramisu Ice Cream I have ever tasted! We had a lovely relaxed night, in this bright and cosy restaurant. Not for stuffy people looking for silver-service, just gorgeous food in a happy atmosphere.

My partner and I were shown to a table with waiters and customers brushing past us on either side the other tables were so close that I though some one was going to knock my elbow whilst I was eating or drinking my wine. Our food was poorly prepared and mediocre at best, the bruscheta just consisted of dry bread and raw tomato, the pasta dishes (we had a different one each) were poorly described and bland (starchy even) . The service followed the same pattern, we waited over 30 minutes for a dessert menu, it felt as if we became invisible at one stage, I eventually ask a waiter what i took to get noticed which resulted in us getting out menu. The price was pretty standard at about £55 for 2 basic starters , 2 main pasta courses, 1 ice cream, 2 coffees and a bottle of red house wine, will certainly give this one a miss when next in Edinburgh

Came during the Edinburgh Festival. Had been here before. Remembered it enough to go back. Ordered the "Special of the Day"--Lamb Shank, clearly marked on the blackboard. Was told, "We never got that in today." Hmm...(Why is it even on your special menu board?...) Had just come from a three hour walk, including going up Arthur's Seat/Chair, and had worked up a nice appetite. No set menu, no special prices. My main dish came out, a pasta dish...incredibly puny..laughably so. Not even nicely presented, just slopped onto the plate, terribly tiny compared to the spaghetti dish of my companion.--whose, incidentally, cost much less than mine.

The only redeemer of this main was that it did taste somewhat tasty. My stomach had been canabalizing so I was absolutely starving. I didn't say anything at that point because, a. my companion was so kind as to share his dish with me and b. I was anticipating having a nice finishing dessert and was absolutely certain that I would have enough room for it.

So, we both order a fruit salad and ice cream for dessert. Astonishing! Two dessert cups came out, medium sized, not even halfway filled. We took a bite, trying to decide whether to complain and send them back. I was starting to feel extremely cheated (and still extremely hungry). We discussed it and decided that, instead of complaining, we would write this up on tripadvisor. I was trying to keep a sunny disposition. Really I was. We ended up standing around waiting for our check for what felt like an eternity. Finally someone came past us and tried to make us feel bad for not "waiting for our waiter, for the check, at our seats." I couldn't help it, at that point. I had to let it out.

Long story short, we all exchanged some words. I knew that what I was saying was nothing that they handn't heard before. They were defensive as if they'd had loads of practice. They clearly do not cater to quality or customer service. I hate to make a fuss. It makes me feel kind of bad, inside, for a little while after. However, they deserved it. They were [--]. I think they knew it but they didn't really care.

Went here with a couple of friends, the waiters and all staff were abrupt and rude, snatching our menus and throwing our plates on the table in front of us. The food was overpriced and bland in flavour. We were overcharged and were never offered change when we had paid which meant they received an awfully large tip which wasn't deserved.

All in all I wouldn't even recommend this to my worst enemies!

Being an Edinburgh local, there are much better places to eat in the city!

Ciao.

We had dinner here one evening. The place looked really nice from the street but was quite basic from the inside. Not too cosy, actually better suited for bigger parties. The food was okay but nothing special. The staff was quite nice but nothing special there too. I guess this would be a nice place to have lunch rather than have dinner.

Good pizzas with unusual toppings (pear?!) - friendly staff, can cater for big groups. Will go again.

Atmosphere great fun and great variety in menu

Brilliant menu, lovely food, great staff.

i didn't likehere as much as the other traditional italians.

Nice atmosphere, good prices, friendly and quick staff, excellent wine.

Basically everything you want from an evening in an Italian restaurant


Yay! classic

For the prices paid Victor, the proprietor, is astonishingly miserly when it comes to both staff pay and staff food. Try working 7 and-a-half hours on two pieces of toast with butter. And if you're a customer thinking that this kind of economizing will be reflected on your bill, you'll be disappointed.‎


We decided to go for a drink. The prosecco-cocktail tasted so good and it got later. So we also ordered a pizza. It was one of the best I've ever had (and I eat pizza a lot)! The staff was really nice and we've had a very nice evening here.

In Edinburgh for 2 weeks went to Centotre one nite sat at back of restaurant I had veal with pasta was very very good my partner had pizza his was not so good but over all we had a good nite...... So 4 nites later we thought we would go back it was 10-30pm I was really looking forward to having the same thing we ordered the garlic pizza as our starter when it came it was not cooked and had to be re-done second time was ok but very very dry. When my veal and spaghetti came it was not the same as 4 nites earlier the pasta now had lots of basil which I donot like and the veal was very very over cooked ie... burnt all around the edges. I tried to pick out the basil but it has a very over powerful flavour so I had to say something after speaking to 3 staff the manger came over and I told her, she said no problem and would re cook my dinner with out th basil and no burnt veal. When my dinner came my partner had long finished his and I felt like I was eating alone not a good feeling. We paid our bill no one asked if things were ok untill we were leaving so when asked I said we had a really bad nite and would never come back again and told them why.

Had a great meal in Cento Tre. Properly cooked pasta, pizza were beautifully fresh base and perfect toppings. Superb bottle of Bardolino. It's a beautiful building and the atmosphere was just the right blend of bustling frenzy and calm booths. Can't wait to get back!

Recently visited Centotre with a party of three for a business lunch. Although the restaurant was packed, we were seated and served quickly and efficiently. Staff were friendly and attentive throughout. I ordered the Piccante pizza - the base was huge and the toppings fresh, flavoursome and to the edges. My only criticism relates to the price (about £10), however the beautiful interior, bustling atmosphere and central location are worth paying extra. Finally, best cappucino in Edinburgh ... well recommended.

I wish I had read reviews on this place as I would not have gone here!! It almost ruined our lovely evening!

Where do I start.....oh I know how about the horrible and rude maitre'd.....I had a bad feeling and should had left as soon as I saw her attitude. When we entered I found the atmosphere to be cold and quite frankly the kind of place you cannot wait to leave. I ordered some pasta dish which was posioned with peppercorns so I could not eat it.....I am not really one to complain so I thought when the waitress came to take our plates she might notice I ate nothing and ask what was wrong....she didn't. We swiftly asked for the bill as I just wanted to get out of there. My boyfriend handed the girl our bill including tip(even though I didn't believe it warranted a tip!) and the waitress didn't even say thank you! I left shocked and annoyed and the disgusting food and dismal service and annoyed i didn't complain....to be honest I think I must have been in shock or something!

So in other words do not waste your time, money or a good evening on this hole.


Wishing to have a quick dinner after shopping in central Edinburgh, we dropped in here for an early meal. The welcome and service were attentive, the menu interesting and the decor of the old banking hall quite modern. Noise levels can be high but did not cause us any problems. We ordered a bottle of Montepulciano 2008 to accompany the meal. It was disappointing even though young. The starters of rocket and pear salad, and a mixed salad were fresh but unexciting. Mains of spinach rotolo and the house ravioli were good, but the shared dessert of rhubarb crumble featured a crumble that was purely powder, not crumble at all! So overall, a nice venue and attentive service, but disappointing food.

Waiter was rude and not interested when I complained about my food. Very expensive for the quality of food we received. Starters either very small or very expensive. I had Speck, mozzarella, tomato & basil which had 2 tiny basil leaves and 3 pieces of tomato. When I said it was rather small to the waiter - he said well that's how it comes! Pasta with sausage & mushroom tasted disgusted and he said 'oh well' and walked off when he asked if everything was ok. My partner enjoyed his pork main course though so he was pleased. Deserts nice but not worth £6 each. Would not recommend this resaurant! Spend your money elsewhere!

i didn't like the lack of atmosphere in here. the food was good but very small portions.

Quick, friendly service with attentive individual service from our waiter and the maitre d'. Simple, tasty food - we had pizza and steak. The atmosphere on a Saturday night was lively and gave a great buzz. Would definitely recommend.

Score: 12/20. Stick with the simple, uncomplicated Italian on offer. Although pizza was not tried, it did not great. Wonderful service. 5 stars=18-20 points, 4 stars=15-17 points, 3 stars=13-14 points, 2 stars=11-12 points, 1 star=9-10 points, 0 star=8 or less points.

When reviewing Centotre last time i made a number of comments about the service and the food but said I would go back. The most recent experience has changed my mind. 3 hours from table to coffee, a starter that was "sold out" at the beginning of the meal appearing as if by by magic 90 minutes into the meal, when the person who had ordered it had already eaten its replacement, veal Milanese (for two people) that was so overcooked that it could have been used to pave a footpath, slow, slow service, The fish that three people had was cooked to perfection. The veal had clearly been held back and broiled to [--] while the fish was cooked. The attitude of the wait staff - "It's the Festival, what do you expect" when the "Family" has been in Edinburgh for more than a century and presumably knows that the Festival (1947 onwards) is an opportunity for making money, doesn't cut it. Why not take on enough staff in August so that you can provide the quality of food and service that you profess to provide? Great idea, well executed in the opening months. Now a cynical money-mill with no attention to the quality of the dining experience.

We are not Edinburgh residents but visit 2 or three times a year. We have eaten here maybe a dozen times since they opened. On - song they are great: high-quality, well-sourced food, simply prepared and served in a great buzzing room. We know that "specials" can misfire, particularly when they are busy. We booked a table for 7 people at 19:30 during the festival, knowing that we had a venue booked at 22:30 but believing that 3 hours was more than enough time for a meal of simple dishes. We arrived 30 minutes early, had drinks outside and were shown to our table. 30 minutes later the waitress arrived to take the orders. The pasta starter that three of us wanted (agnolotti with pesto) was "sold out". Rather than wait while we reconsidered, she flounced off for another 15 minutes before returning to take the order. The starters duly arrived and were eaten. 30 minutes went by: no main course. Enquiries to waiter: "Soon" was the reply. 45 minutes went by; enquiries to various wait staff and to Victor Contini himself. "Soon" was the reply. Eventually the food appeared. The fish (fritto miste del mare and dover sole) was exemplary. The guest who had opted for gnocci since there was no agnolotti was offered agnolotti, while half-way through his gnocci 90 minutes after having been told there was no agnolotti. Two of had ordered veal Milanese in the mistaken belief that nobody could b*gger up a veal escalope dipped in egg and breadcrumbs and fried. We had recocgned without the cook (they surely cannot have a chef) who contrived to produce two £19:95 paving slabs that had either been overcooked to begin with or had been left to keep warm under a grill until the fish was ready.

Now, the inedible veal mains were not charged for, nor were the pasta dishes that replaced them so that we did not go away hungry.

The waiting staff were unapologetic. Indeed the sentiment that we should expect no better at Festival time was expressed by one particulatly annoying little snit with an ear-ring.

A consequence of the delay in serving the meal was, of course, thaqt we drank more wine - to their advantage. A minor annoyance was that (having had three bottles of white) I ordered a bottle of a red upon which Mr Contini complimented me. The second bottle of red was "corked" but the waiter would not accept the rejection of this bottle by me and my son but referred to said Mr Contini and then told us that it "was alright that we had rejected the wine because they would get the money back from their merchant" - as is we somehow had to be excused from drinking wine at £38 a bottle that was undrikable.

I think that (sadly) one too many unfortunate and disappointing experiences of what could and should be a good meal means we shall not return.

The Continis must know, after more than century in the city, that the Festival is a resource to be nurtered. Instead they seem to want to use it as an excuse for poor service, poor food and a quick turnover. Why not employ enough staff for the festival to keep standards high?
2 hours and 45 minutes after we had booked the table we struggling to finish, pay and make the 22:30 show.

This is an enterprise that succeded big time and is now resting on its undeserved laurels.

We were recommended this restaurant on our recent weekend break to Edinburgh. My sister was there 18 months ago and really enjoyed it. I can only presume things have gone downhill considerably since then. Decor almost psychedelic. Maitre D almost bowled us over with loud casual service. We planned to have a drink pre dinner but nearly had to shout her down to get that across. I ordered a prosecco with raspberry purree, served warm in a wine glass. Not a good start. We were then seated (my fiance and I) beside a hen party of about 20 girls. We asked to move (not a classy representation of a place) and our very pleasant waitress (the only commendable part of the evening) accommodated us.

We both ordered sirloin steak - big mistake. It was chargrilled ie burnt and while medium rare as requested burnt outer taste made it inedible. We didn't complain. After unremarkable starter, not worth it. The people beside us were busy complaining anyway.

We ordered a bottle of Chianti Classico Riserva (twice the price of Chianti Classico). When we received it there was no mention or taste of it being a riserva. We mentioned it and the manager/owner came along to very pleasantly try to convince us it was indeed one despite the label. It was not. He didn't offer to change it and we didn't bother to insist. He did send over a complimentary glass of prosecco which while nice of him didn't near compensate for our overall experience.

All in all, one of the worst and extremely overpriced meals we've ever had.

Certainly won't be back..


Not impressed! Very uninspiring Italian food. Not worth the money!

14 people ate here and 13 people did not like or finish their meal. We all ordered Pizza or Pasta dishes to our disappointment!! The lasagne was served wrapped with tin foil and was so badly burnt the fork would not go in without a push. A lady who appeared to be the manager just served the dishes and ran.
When we complained it took the manager 15 minutes to come to our table to speak with us.
While we were there 3 other tables also complained.
Thankfully the restaurant did not charge us for the food but the excuse that we were given was 'this is how we cook our food....' Not good!!

Good for lunch but can be pricey

Been here a few times and always enjoyed the meal.

I had the worst pizza ever. Service was very poor.

I love this buillding, great for a working lunch or evening meal with someone special. Great room downstairs for a party. Lobster languine is to die for!


love this place. book now.

Enjoyed my meal but a bit too "family friendly"

Yes...nice idea and nice food. But what happened to the friendly service? Smiles seem to be not included at Centotre. I would probably put up with that if the service was impeccable ...and yet ...not really. Nice earthy italian food is still a magnet but because of the impersonal, erratic and less than friendly approach my risotto doesn't taste as good as it used to...3* but 2 and1/2 probably more appropriate.

A bit prissy and pretentious, although the hot chocolate is to kill for.

No atmsphere here at all

Jenny loves this place

Had very nice meal at Al Dente recently. Impressed by the owners obvious passion and pride in what he has achieved with this restaurant. Had a simple but tasty spinach canneloni for starter which not only was a nicely sized portion but also cooked to perfection. The pan fried sea bass isnt neccesarily a traditional italian dish in my mind but that only made it better. Vegetables cooked just right and the fish itself was particularly tasty. All topped off with a good range of desserts. The place itself was very much a front room restaurant, in other words, comfortable, cosy and welcoming. Would certainly come again.

Amazed this fantastic wee place could be described as average. I'm a local and this was my sixth visit to Al Dente - I've only experienced Italian food as good as this during trips to Italy. Yes, it's not in the centre of town, but that adds to the charm. The ambience is relaxed and casual and the owner always provides a warm welcome. Indeed his enthusiasm for the food and wine really enhances the whole experience. Whether you are a local or a visitor, this is a must try experience. Easily my favourite restaurant in Edinburgh.


Staying only one night in Edinburgh we though we'd use TripAdvisor and decided on Al Dente. I must say that I am very surprised that this is considered #3 in the list. Located a short taxi ride away from central Edinburgh it cost about £8 each way.
The premises is small but comforatable and quickly filled up when we arrived. The food is nice, but the other reviews on tripadvisor led us to expect far more. We were both left disappointed mainly due to the other rave reviews. in my opinion you can get food just as nice in central Edinburgh and put the taxi fare you saved on a nice bottle of wine.

Interior is small and tables are all a bit crammed in. Portions are on the small side (and £4.90 for the smallest slice of chocolate and pear tart I have ever seen) but the quality of the food is very good. Service is also very good.

We visited on 1 January 2010. The owner took time to chat about the menu and specials available. Choice was difficult, the menu had several we wanted to try. We found a strong emphasis on quality of the ingredients and flavour, the open kitchen inspires confidence. Having travelled extensively in Italy and recently been in Sicily we recognised many touches we only previously found in Italy. For such a small place the atmosphere was great. Have recommended to several friends and will definitely visit again.

My boyfriend and I visited this restaurant during a weekend break in Edinburgh and I loved it so much I had to write my first review on here! We booked the restaurant solely because of the high rating it had received on trip advisor and were not disappointed.

The restaurant is located slightly outside of the centre tourist area of Edinburgh but is only a 5 minute cab ride from the centre of the city and is definitely worth it. This is a very authentic Italian restaurant, with amazing Italian food, the swordfish I had to start was one of the best starters I have ever had!

The waiter and owner of the restaurant showed such passion for the food and country and gave us amazing personal service. This is best experience I have ever had in an Italian restaurant both because of the exceptional food and the service, I cannot recommend this restaurant enough.

Having read trip advisor reviews and having taken a number of personal recommendations we decided to opt for Al Dente on our recent visit to Edinburgh. The very warm welcome with a kiss was a nice surprise! The detailed explanations behind each dish and wine selection were very helpful but best of all was the food. The food was excellent and made with the freshest of ingredients in a truly authentic Italian style. A very enjoyable evening which the owner and host Graziano played a very significant part. Thank you Graziano.

Nice place with good food and af riendly ambience. Had an enjoyable evening here the only slight issue would perhaps be the decor is a little tired.

We visited Al Dente on a monday evening in January 2010. We were the only table booked, but Graziano (the owner) made us feel very welcome and special. We had a beautiful meal with excellent wine. My husband had the best risotto he has ever tasted and delicious stuffed chicken and I had figs with gorgonzola cheese and parma ham (a special) and the most beautiful piece of cod. The dessert was lovely too. It was a taxi drive from our hotel at the other end of Princes St, but we are so glad we went. We will defintely go back and just wish we had a lovely local Italian restaurant like this near where we live.

We had our new year's dinner in here and liked it. Risotto and dessert were the best part

We also thought it was a bit far from downtown but two buses can take you there or a £9-taxi from Princess Street


We were in Edinburgh for the Hogmanay celebrations and booked this restaurant as all the reviews were so glowing!!!!
Not sure if we went to the same restaurant as we had a slightly different experience. Although we could not fault the friendly welcome of the manager the food left a lot to be desired and I dont think we were the only ones in the restaurant to think this as the table behind us sent their food back twice!!!!!
It had a slight feel of "Faulty Towers" about the place and although amusing I dont think I could say that this deserved No.1 rating for restaurants in Edinburgh.

We visited Al Dente a few days before Christmas based on Trip Advisor recommendations. Food was good, and service was excellent. The owner was really interesting and chatted with us for a long time. We plan on going back in Summer - sounds like thay have wonderful theme evenings with Italian regional cuisine.
We ate there on a Monday night, and the restaurant was empty for most for the evening, though other restaurants in Edinburgh seemed really busy all that week - not sure why. If you go to Al Dente on a cold night - dress warmly - they don't seem to have much heating. We worse coats/ jackets most of the time.

went there for my wifes 40th birthday,as its near christmas it was a christmas menu with 3 courses,oooops i told the man when i was booking it,there two kids coming they wouldnt manage all that,no probs we will sort something out,So 8 adults and 2 kids duly arrived,needless to say he did his thing flirting with the ladies and looking after the kids (good man wouldnt expect anything else in an Italian restaurant)
But enough of that to me it dosnt matter what restaurants look like i am there for the food, and boy does it deliver,nothing else i can say apart from out of this world, three courses of bliss wine was good service was good,not had Italian food like it outside of Italy,it was that good
Price was so good,food was even better ,when i got home found out he had not charged me for the kids meals that he had got the chef to make for them,so i will be going back to pay (will be having another meal of course)
so in a nutshell,is there a better Italian restaurant in Edinburgh no,Scotland no, UK no, somewhere there might be in a small village in Italy but dont hold your breath,this place is that good

Came here after reading the reviews on Tripadvisor when we visited Edinburgh last weekend.
This tiny restaurant serves the most delicious food, all locally sourced where possible and freshly cooked.
I had probably the best risotto and fillet steak i've ever tasted, delicious!
The staff were friendly and attentive without sitting on your shoulder. If you like authentic Italian food at a reasonable price i'd highly recommend this little gem next time you're in Edinburgh.

Al Dente is an excellent, friendly, homely and truly Italian dining experience not to be missed. The chef and waiter run it together, planning a menu from a different region of Italy for a special feast each month, the most successful dishes making it on to the ever-changing menu. Pre-booking is mostly not necessary but is necessary for these monthly menus. I have never been disappointed, which I cannot say for any restaurant I have been to in Italy!

I went to Gordons Trattoria for a meal last month and was hugely dissapointed.
I chose Gamberoni as my starter as this is one of my favourite Italian dishes. The Prawns were machined into a butterfly shape, were covered in breadcrumbs and tasted of nothing except the overused oil they were cooked in. There was a mayonnaise which I suspect was intended to be garlic flavoured, however it only tasted of insipid mayonnaise. Finally there was a single lettuce leaf covered with what appeared to be a bottled salad dressing.
My next course was Vitello Milanese which is again one of my favourite Italian Dishes. This consisted of two thin veal steaks, which looked like they have been rapidly defrosted then thrown into oil to cook. They were slightly burned and the thin parts of were hard and crispy. The taste was of the same cooking oil that the Gamberoni were fried in. With this came insipid, undercooked American style French fries, which looked like they had been thrown out of a freezer into a deep fat fryer for a short period of time, These tasted of the oil they were cooked in (the same as the Gamberoni and the veal). The vegetable was a compulsory piece of broccoli. Presumably to give the dish some flavour.
Overall I came out of the restauraant with the taste of over used oil in my mouth.
The wife fared slightly better having the Bruschetta followed by the Pollo Milanese con Spaghetti Napolitana.
I had two tiny bottles of beer which cost approximately £7.50, the wife a diet coke.
The total bill came to £62.50 once the compulsory service charge was added.
I hate it when I go for a special meal and am really disappointed.

I have been to Gordon's Trattoria three times now within the past two years and I have to say that it has always been fantastic in terms of food, hospitality and atmosphere. OK, it is not Gleneagles and is not the sort of place you would go for a 'romantic' dinner; but then you wouldn't expect it to be because of its diminutive size and excellent value. Though it may not look sophisticated, you must not judge a book by its cover. What it may lack in sophistication as it were; it makes up for in charm, atmosphere, quality of service and quality of food. The staff are all absolutely charming and both very lively and very courteous; it is a very friendly, relaxed restaurant; to me there is nothing more infuriating than a restaurant with unfriendly and disinterested staff. The atmosphere here is wonderful because all of the staff are able to smile and have fun, and it's always full to capacity with people enjoying themselves. This is also a positive sign; a sign that the restaurant is popular with others and doing well. The restaurant is diminutive so booking is recommended, and with a small but full restaurant, quite a bit of noise is inevitable. But this adds to the entertainment and makes ones experience more enjoyable. What's more is that the restaurant appears to be popular with locals as well as tourists. I am not Scottish and consider myself a foreigner in Scotland, but do not like places that are too 'touristy'. I want to be able to experience the real life in Scotland.

I also love the fact that the restaurant looks and feels like it could be in Italy. The staff are all incredibly pleasant Scots or Italians, who are very lively. And what of the food? The food is brilliant; once again it is very authentic, traditional Italian pizza and pasta dishes such as tortellini and lasagne. Gordon's Trattoria also serves the best garlic pizza bread and ice-cream out there. The banana splits and peach melbas are irresistible. The food is also nicely-presented, but is in no way fussy and the main course portions are of a very good size; perhaps so big that you cannot always manage a dessert! It is traditional, honest, home-cooked Italian food served with a smile in a lively restaurant; no wonder it is so popular.

Experienced one of my worst dining experiences and I've eaten in work canteens!!!... The wine was vile and overpriced. Ordered a Pizza and was delivered burnt with no apology. The waitress was more concerend about stuffing her face with food in front of all the customers guzzeled down with diet coke. The place seems dirty and very unprofessional! DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PLACE!

We visited this restaurant for the first time thought it looked good. We had hardly sad down and our starters were put in front of us with lightening speed along with the garlic bread which was meant to be served with the main course. The waitress picked up our plates after we had eaten our starters and imediately the main course was put down. The food looked as though it had been blasted in a microwave as it was far too hot to eat, I had chosen lasagne which I didn't eat much of, the cheese on it was far too chewey and rubbery. We were given the bill without asking for it or being asked if we wanted anything else. Would give this place a miss when visiting Edinburgh!!

loved the food but this is not a quiet relaxed place. waiters actually running from table to table and tables are very close so the noise level is high . So be prepared for lots of action and business as the place is always full.

Ate here 02/0310 as it looked ok from the menu and outside. Inside it was cold and the atmosphere was very uninspiring . The food was just ok , but served very fast although we were only 1 of 2 couples in the restaurant. The waitress was uninterested in the food and the customers and a member of staff was eating at the front of house both when we came in and left. The price was very expensive for the quality of food and disliked the 10% service charge automatically added to the bill. Would not recommend this place to anyone visiting Edinburgh

Good pasta & pizza. Fast service.

we just happened to stop at this restaurant our first night and we loved it! the food was delicious and they were very accommodating for our two children. the waitress told us that they could make children sized pizza's and pasta portion. our daughters ordered pizzas and when they came out, they were in the shape of hearts! the next night we decided to go back again (it was that good) and this time we sat inside and our waiter was very pleasant and chatty and the chef (because it was early and not so busy yet) asked our kids what shape they wanted their pizzas and so we got butterfly shaped pizzas! it's not that cheap but it was worth every penny!

Although this is a small restaurant, it is filled with smiles and good energy. The pasta was delicious and well-priced for our tight budget. We were met with a genuinely friendly welcome, and enjoyed our meal greatly.
Went to Gordon’s twice during our recent Edinburgh trip and had two excellent meals. Quite small inside meaning you can be closer than usual to your fellow diners. Great range of starters including traditional prawn cocktail, melon with parma ham, caprese and a couple of decent soups. The pasta was cooked perfectly with very well flavoured sauces and puddings are the usual Italian fare but again all very well done. The staff are fantastic. Very welcoming, helpful and informal with some good lighthearted banter with customers as the evening went on. Could be a little noisy for some later on but all in all a really good place that I would recommend to all.

Visited this restaurant as the overpriced Maxies Bistro was full.Very good menu with lots of choice.great prawn cocktail followed by enjoyable Spaghetti with clams in white wine.Finished with a Knickerbocker Glory which i reckoned i deserved for having visited 5 museums in one day!Very full and a bit noisy but made to feel welcome which is important.
the food was really nice in here although it badly needs decorated.
We ate here twice whilst in Edinburgh for 4 days. The food tasted great and there are lots to choose from! Very friendly staff and very close to the castle. Would definatly recommend.

Great friendly place with great italian food.... Not fine dining but proper honest food that had us all tasting each others dishes!!!
Kids are well looked after too with none of that "CHILD" menu crap, kids get to choose from the main menu, just a smaller portion. WHY CAN'T ALL RESTAURANTS DO THIS?
(You parents know what i mean.... nice food for grown ups.... chicken dippers for the kids) anyway enough of that, this restaurant ticks all the boxes for a great meal!!

Enjoyed a meal here on a walk home from the Fringe activities on the Royal Mile. Starters were very good and an appropriate size of helping. Meat mains were a great size and the sauces for both beef and chicken dishes enhanced the flavour nicely. Pasta dish could have been a little more generous in terms of the portion given.

Overall a good meal with friendly service plus we were able to walk in during a busy time and get a table without booking ahead.

I stopped in here on my first night in Edinburgh and wasn't disappointed. I had bruschetta, gnocchi with tomato basil sauce and a chocolate pastry sweet. The service was friendly, the atmosphere cozy (not over crowed) and the food had a fresh, simple taste. If you're looking for a spectaclar fine dining experience, visit the Grain Store restaurant. For very good pub fare, be sure to visit the Royal McGregor.




We ate here on a busy Saturday night, and were told we would have to wait for a table. This was fine, as we were given menus, and sat outside for 15mins.

When called in, our table was ready. Our drinks and food order were taken efficiently, and despite the restaurant being busy, out food arrived in good time.

The pizzas were both well cooked, and of good quality for the money.

The restaurant isn't trying to be anything more than an honest value italian restaurant, and it achieves that very well.


We dined in this restaurant on a recent visit to Edinburgh - situated in the Grassmarket it's and seemingly authentic italian, i think it's a great location for tourists! When we first asked for a table for 2 we were taken to a table that had just been used by another customer and was strewn with dirty dishes - we just looked at the waiter and he took us to another one. The waiting staff's english wasn't too good but we can ignore that (she said red wine 3 times before she realised that we actually wanted white wine). We ordered food and it came quickly but when the waitress cleared our starters she removed the dirty cutlery from my place and placed it on the table - I let this go thinking perhaps it was customery for italians to use the same cutlery for each course - after our main course we spotted a group of 3 americans being seated to their tables, and notices after they'd placed their order for starters and mains, the waiting staff actually came over put napkins on their knees and set their tables up with cutlery for both starter and main courses - they were also offered a jug of water - we weren't! My friend who had hurt here knee quite badly needed to use the toilet and as the ladies were down two flights of stairs, I suggested that she use the disabled toilet which was in the middle of the restaurant and as there were no apparant disabled users and the restaurant was fairly quiet, it would be fine. She got to open the door when one of the waiters pounced on her shut the door and told her to go downstairs - she did see coats and bags hanging all over the place and assumed they must be using it as a staff room - so why did they have the disabled sign on it. We shortly left the restaurant never to return and the next day we noticed that a little italian bistro, which we'd had lunch in the day before, was absolutely packed at lunchtime and the Genarro's was empty - I figure this restaurant just wants to cater to wealthy tourists as it obviously doesn't want to build up a trade of locals - never go back and never recommend.



Colicchio & Sons is the subject of my restaurant review this week. The space used to be Craftsteak, and it retains some of that steakhouse brawn. The food is crazy-good throwdown fare that shows Tom Colicchio, the restaurant’s chef and an owner, to be at the top of his game. It’s worth heading over to Chelsea to give it a try.

Will the restaurant last? It’s a fair question. Mr. Colicchio has a lot on his plate: Craft restaurants to run; Craftbars; Craftsteaks; ’Wichcrafts; not to mention his role as the chief judge on “Top Chef.” This last position probably only eats a month of his time, all in, but when you pile it on top of all the rest – the travel and worry, the national staffing issues and sourcing woes – one wonders how long he can really afford to be down there on 10th Avenue, cooking couture tasting menus for Manhattan aesthetes.

Mr. Colicchio is burning bright. The time to go to Colicchio & Sons is now.

Today’s subject for discussion in the comments? Let’s start with the relative merits of Colicchio & Sons, if you’ve been there; or your best memories of Mr. Colicchio’s cooking elsewhere if you haven’t, all the way back to his early days at Mondrian and Gramercy Tavern.

Then, if you like, we can start gabbing about “Top Chef.” Bonus points for jokes about Toby Young!

THE best dishes of the year? We’ll get to the roasted unicorn in dwarf-fairy reduction sauce soon enough. But perspective is everything. For much of 2009 I was not the restaurant critic of The New York Times. I was the newspaper’s culture editor, with little access to the sort of food that ordinarily appears in articles like this one.

Many of my meals were taken at my desk, between phone calls or sometimes during them, sometimes three times a day. Others were taken on weekends, the children in tow, rushing from beach to grocery store to birthday party or back. Still more were eaten at the bars of Times Square gin mills well after the newspaper’s nightly deadlines, as colleagues railed into the dark against the perfidy of whoever had stood in the way of our getting to the place earlier.

Of course, I did not go hungry before stepping into the big brogans of Frank Bruni, my brilliant and tireless predecessor, who left his post at the end of August. As a civilian with a deep interest in the city’s restaurant culture, I was able to sneak in some truly memorable dishes this year: among them, a perfect agnolotti del plin at Del Posto; a tiny piece of French toast at Momofuku Ko; a crisp and juicy truffle-stuffed chicken thigh with Medjool dates, carrot mousseline and tatsoi at Per Se.

As an amateur, I would also rate the suckling-pig tacos that Jimmy Bradley served as a Monday night special at the Red Cat in Chelsea as among the best things I ate in 2009. I also loved the spicy chicken shwarma served at the new, expanded Pick-a-Pita on Eighth Avenue near the newsroom, and the Korean tacos from the Kogi truck in Los Angeles.

But the following list, presented in no particular order, reflects my recent experience as a professional eater. It is the accounting of a fellow feeding with critical intent, who has read back over some months of notes to determine what, of all the new dishes in all the new restaurants in New York City, really were his favorites. (Since The Times does not review new restaurants until a decent interval has passed, the list includes a few dishes from places that opened at the end of 2008.)

In such cases where it seemed appropriate, I reached out to the creators and asked for a recipe. Even made by an amateur with a grim kitchen in Somewheresville, they can approximate the quality experienced here in the big town, under sparkling lights.
Decades ago, a recipe for sabudana vada sealed the fate and fortune of Prakash.

The restaurant, in the central Mumbai district of Dadar, is synonymous with the Maharashtrian specialty, which is made by mixing translucent, presoaked sago pearls — extracted from sago palm trees and similar to tapioca — with cumin, green chilies, potatoes and crushed peanuts, and then frying the rolled contents into balls. At Prakash, the fist-size vadas — a catchall term used in many Indian languages for fried dumplings or fritters — come crispy and crunchy on the outside, with a soft and sticky inner layer, and are accompanied by a peanut-and-yogurt chutney.

“My grandfather spent months perfecting the recipe,” said Ashutosh Joglekar, who runs the family business along with his cousins. “He loved to cook.”

Mr. Joglekar’s grandfather, who founded the beloved restaurant, opened the original location, a pint-size spot in Prarthana Samaj, in south Mumbai, in 1947. The Dadar branch opened two decades later.

Catering primarily to working-class loyalists, Prakash is not about haute cuisine or ambience. Seating is cafeteria-style; waiters, outfitted in khaki shirts, speak little English. Despite a recent paint job and new etched-glass panels, it’s much the same as in its early days.

The menu is devoid of description, a laundry list of 30 items and their prices, which makes knowing what to order imperative. A runner-up in popularity to the sabudana vada (below) is the restaurant’s misal, a colorful layering of savory ingredients including lentils, sprouted mung beans, poha (rice flakes), sev (crunchy, fried gram flour noodles), potatoes, onions, cilantro and, most important, a dozen or so ground spices. Lapping up the soupy, spiced spoonful left behind is, for Prakash regulars, the equivalent of getting to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop.

Other specialties include thalipith, a chewy, pitalike bread studded with shreds of garlic and ginger and roasted on a greased pan; and kopra pak, grated coconut squares, soaked in a sugar syrup and garnished with sliced almonds and pistachio bits. (The kopra pak is available only from Prakash’s sweets counter, adjacent to the restaurant, but will be brought to your table if requested.) Wash the meal down with a tall glass of thick, creamy piyush, which is basically a more liquidy version of shrikhand, a sweet, saffron-laced strained yogurt. 

At first glance, it is the easiest recipe in the world, a marvel of the Sunday-morning ridiculous: grate potatoes into a pan with butter. Turn them golden brown over medium heat. Serve with eggs, toast, sausage.

Accompany these with good coffee and a long run through the newspaper, and you have a day made whole from its start. That is a good plan to make in the serenity of an early-morning kitchen, anyway. People are sleeping or just stirring, and bright sunlight falls on the corner of a cutting board, on a pile of potatoes, a stick of butter, the ebony perfection of a clean, cast-iron pan. This simple recipe: The novelist William Maxwell’s bright center of heaven, as undemanding as grass.

“Through everything flowed the quick immeasurable energy of the morning, yet nothing was disturbed by it,” Maxwell wrote of just such a scene. “The room was utterly quiet, utterly self-possessed.”

Go ahead and start cooking, though. Watch and smell as those potatoes begin to singe, listen as children pad into the room to call for pancakes or French toast instead, as spouses and in-laws mutter about cholesterol or houseguests smile tight in the smoke as the potatoes continue not to cook, even as they burn. It becomes instantly clear why people stand in line for an hour for brunch at a restaurant: What appears easy often is not.

I puzzled over this for a while, my blackened and raw potatoes, my impotent rage. You go to Henrietta’s Table in Cambridge, Mass., for breakfast, and the hash browns are like something out of a Dutch painting — a still life of breakfast, circa 1650. They are thick and crusted, brown and nutty, with a luscious yellow-white interior, the perfect rejoinder to warm egg yolk, to bacon grease. They make for breakfast perfection at $4.25, eggs included.

That’s all I was looking for, all that I was failing to achieve.

So I called Peter Davis, the chef at Henrietta’s, to find out what was the what. He mm-hmmed a little when I told him my scorched woes, then started to speak in a soft New England accent. He laid things out for me as if reading a Robert Lowell poem for the professional kitchen, applicable to the home. “Clarify the butter first,” he said.

Butter is a fat: a stick of milk solids bound with emulsified oil, suspending some water. It melts in a pan set over a medium fire, then starts to foam. Eventually, the milk solids begin to brown (making brown-butter sauce, terrific on fish) and then to burn (making burned butter, breakfast’s bane).

Thus clarification. “You want to remove those milk solids,” Davis said, so that you can heat the butter to a higher temperature without burning, make it hot enough to crisp your potatoes and allow the sugars within them to caramelize, to turn into crust.

Science! It’s poetry in motion. To clarify butter, you gently melt a few sticks in a small pot and allow the liquid to foam. Then you skim all the gook from the top and leave all the gook at the bottom, and use what remains as your cooking oil. The process is simple, a trick of the restaurant trade. It results in no great loss of product for the price paid for it, while offering a tremendous increase in taste and satisfaction.

Henrietta’s goes through a great deal of clarified butter. The restaurant, located off the ground floor of the Charles Hotel, a few blocks from Harvard Square, cooks something on the order of 200 breakfasts every weekday, Davis said in the interview, and 300 a day on weekends. These are big, serious morning feeds built around hash browns and toast and coffee, fresh eggs and squeezed juices, tureens of maple syrup for the waffles and hotcakes, thick Nueske’s bacon on the side.

“It’s a meal where you really have to pay attention,” Davis said. “You have to take it seriously as a cook, sometimes even as seriously as dinner.”

So clarify your butter the day or night before you want to throw down your marker. That way it will be ready for you in bleary first light. Boil your potatoes while you’re at it — Yukon Golds, ideally, with their high sugar content — and allow them to dry, whole and ungrated, overnight in the refrigerator. This, too, will leave you prepared to do breakfast battle with the crabby and undercaffeinated alike.

It is the work of perhaps 40 minutes to grate the now-dry-and-cool potatoes, to heat the pan and add to it the butter, to season the potatoes and place them over the heat, to listen and smell (in happiness this time) as the oil crackles against the starches, transforming them into a fragrant crust.

There are two ways to flip hash browns. One is to wriggle a wide spatula beneath them, working it into the center of the pan and then flipping the whole as if it were a giant pancake. Or you can place a plate over the pan, put your hand on it and quickly invert the whole. Then you slide the new bottom, until recently the unfinished top, back into the pan to continue cooking. Whichever method makes you less nervous is the one to use.

Now eggs. You can crack some into a hot pan with more of that clarified butter, let them go sunny in the heat; you can always flick some water on them and cover the pan for a few minutes, which helps set the whites even as the bottoms cook tight. Alternatively, you could tack toward Port Fancy and make some Edna Lewis-style scrambled eggs with trout roe to welcome the spring season with soft, salty cheer. Lewis was the great Southern chef who made the New York scene with Café Nicholson in the 1950s and who, when she retired to Georgia, was attended to by Scott Peacock, the Alabama-born chef. Before Lewis’s death in 2006, they wrote a cookbook together, “The Gift of Southern Cooking.” It’ll set you up right.

For Lewis’s eggs, you make a kind of slurry of butter and trout roe in a hot pan, with a teaspoon of garlic, a squeeze of lemon and a dash of parsley. (Trout roe is available online from Amazon and Petrossian and from fancier supermarkets.) Then you scramble some eggs with heavy cream, moving them around a pan over low heat until they form into curds.

Now you stir the roe into the eggs — gently, as if rubbing a baby to sleep. Spoon these onto a plate, beside a healthy portion of hash browns and a few slices of toast. Watch everyone’s eyes go wide. Breakfast is served. 

SATURDAY night in the neighborhood that once gave America fever, a Brooklyn that looks to itself for employment and has little time for the glittering island to the north. A bridge rises out of it, a silver ramp, and you can see ocean beneath it, darkness running all the way to Portugal, and from there down the Mediterranean to the Middle East. Dinner time.

Couples slide into tables at Tanoreen, Rawia Bishara’s marbled Levantine restaurant on the corner of Third Avenue and 76th Street in Bay Ridge, lately expanded from its tiny birth site in a storefront one block south. They join families with children, friends meeting friends. It is a lively, happy scene set beneath clouds of lamb, mint and garlic scents combined.

Arabic music plays over speakers connected to a stereo set in back, and if this time it’s not the Lebanese siren Fairuz, singing “Al Bosta,” which evokes a village called Tanoreen, it might as well be.

Fairuz is known in the Middle East as “the neighbor to the moon.” Much the same could be said of Ms. Bishara, a Palestinian who grew up in Nazareth, in northern Israel, and who has been in the United States for close to four decades. She owns Tanoreen with her daughter, Jumana, whose eyes sparkle in the same almond shape as her mother’s.

These women rule over the kitchen and dining room with a kind of fierce benevolence. But it is the boundless cooking and endless, prodding hospitality of Ms. Bishara the elder that have defined the restaurant. At Tanoreen, she is celestial.

Pickles come to the table first: delicate, sweet beets tangy with vinegar, lovely against a glass of mint tea. Palates jump to attention. They are greeted then by plates and plates of appetizers, or mezze. Sujok, an air-dried Armenian beef sausage scented with cumin and sumac, arrives in a small pool of spicy olive oil, bright with garlic. Eat a slice with a piece of the restaurant’s thin pita or crunchy zatar-spiced bread, then take another bite of beet.

Follow this with a bit of ethereal hummus, lightened with lemon juice to the point of being cloudlike, and some crazily flavorful tabbouleh, whose mint and bulgur combine into something that tastes very much like joy.

There is baba ghanouj as well, smoky and rich in its eggplant base, and fattoush, a marvelous salad made of lettuce and cucumber, tomatoes and mint, sumac and parsley. It is dressed in olive oil, lemon and garlic, and layered in toasted wedges of pita, which Ms. Bishara uses throughout her cooking for texture, to great effect.

Here now are some florets of cauliflower, browned to softness then allowed to cool, dressed in tahini and lines of pomegranate molasses, astringent sweetness against the flavors of sesame and vegetable. And a napoleon of eggplant, fried soft and sweet, then layered with baba ghanouj and festooned with tomatoes and — what’s this? — basil.

Ms. Bishara’s translation of Middle Eastern cooking has Mediterranean accents, and occasional North American ones from her decades in the United States. And so the tang of cilantro enlivens some of her dishes, and the musk of basil, the welcome zing of jalapeño.

In the opposite direction, she makes a simple spiced roast chicken with potatoes (and, for children, a mean plate of fried chicken fingers with French fries and ketchup), and a stuffed cabbage that your Uncle Murray who only eats tuna salad would devour.

Tanoreen’s entrees are, in the main, less successful than the appetizers. Partly this is because the food doesn’t support the division of a meal into the Western tradition of starter and main course. After four or five delicious small plates, it’s difficult to do battle with a gristly lamb shank or one-acre lot of shepherd’s pie.

It is smarter, perhaps, to order more from the appetizer lists — some small spinach or meat pies, for instance, and a plate of kibbe, the fried nuggets of ground lamb and spices that are meat’s answer to M&M’s, followed by some ridiculously flavorful stuffed grape leaves. Then share sparingly of the main courses, along with some simply sautéed spinach or kale.

The best of the entrees include lamb fette, traditionally a breakfast dish, here layered with toasted pita and yogurt, chickpeas and mountains of meat flavored with Ms. Bishara’s secret blend of Tanoreen spices (cinnamon, coriander, cumin, some nutmeg, dried ginger, rosebuds and pixie dust), with pilaf cut through with vermicelli. It would serve a platoon of Marines.

There is also a terrific combination platter of grilled lamb and chicken, and another of delicate fried red snapper, and sautéed shrimp that is as redolent of garlic as that at any Italian ristorante on Sheepshead Bay. The kibbe entree is also worth a look — fried crisp on its exterior, with pillowy lamb within. The falafel sandwich is superb.

Service is professional if slightly scattershot — Ms. Bishara’s staff is still coming to terms, perhaps, with the larger room, which has 50 more seats than the old one, and a full bar besides. There are occasionally long delays between courses (another argument for investing heavily in small plates). You might need to ask for water a few times.

But whenever spirits flag, it seems, Ms. Bishara appears at an elbow, eyes flashing and smile wide, to check in or apologize, to inquire after health and happiness, to see what might be done to improve the meal. This does a lot, as it happens, to mitigate a restaurant’s shortcomings. It is part of Tanoreen’s ethos.

So, too, is dessert. Knafeh, or shredded phyllo dough stuffed with sweet cheese and topped with pistachios and rosewater syrup, is the signature dessert. But sahlab, a sweet custard that nods to France’s occupation of Lebanon between the world wars, is worth a spoon as well, as is a plate of baklava, sticky with honey and rich with nuts.

Tanoreen is, at the end, a deeply individualistic restaurant. Ms. Bishara is a Brooklynite, though also a Palestinian raised in Israel, where her brother served in the Knesset. Her restaurant has a Lebanese name. She sprinkles basil over her lamb.

Is such cooking authentic? Yes, though no. It doesn’t matter and who cares. It’s mostly delicious. Authenticity, anyway, is almost always a lie.

THERE was a television crew in Motorino in Williamsburg a couple of weeks ago, Michelle Park from NY1 shooting a segment with the restaurant’s chef, the elegant young Mathieu Palombino. He smiled shyly in chef’s whites.

There have been others. Fame stalks the restaurant, which has locations in Brooklyn and the East Village. Vice magazine came to film an episode of its “Munchies” program, which streams on VBS.tv. Frank Castronovo and Frank Falcinelli, who run the Frankies restaurants and Prime Meats out of a compound in Carroll Gardens, were the ostensible subjects, but they ventured to Motorino to eat pizza. They ended up spiriting Mr. Palombino back to their lair to make meatballs.

Even the upstate media personality Rachael Ray has gotten in on the Motorino act, publishing Ed Levine’s and Adam Kuban’s lunatic cross-country pizza competition, a bracket-style run-up to the announcement of America’s best pizza, in the March issue of Every Day With Rachael Ray. (Motorino won in the eastern division; Pizzeria Bianco, in Phoenix, took the national title.) Ms. Ray is in the East Village outpost of the restaurant “far too often,” she told The Daily News.

Motorino is having a moment. That seems fair. It serves the city’s best pizza.

It does so consistently, at both locations, whether Mr. Palombino is cooking or not. Made to his specifications and cooked in the tempering heat of a wood fire, his crust emerges from the oven as a Neapolitan fantasy of crispness that is also pillowy and soft, sweet but not sugared, tangy without too much salt.

Multiple visits to the restaurants confirm: Motorino pies are great hot out of the oven, 5 minutes later, 10. You can order too much, watch a pie go cool on the plate, eat it anyway and discover: terrific.

You can order pizzas to take out, drive them across the boroughs in freezing conditions, get home and reheat the pies: still terrific. Even a slice in the morning, fridge-cooled mozzarella over tangy red sauce, exhibits the pliancy and flavor of bread, not cardboard.

Pizza has been a big deal in New York since the first slice was folded. It has been a big deal in the upper reaches of the New York restaurant world since at least 2004, when places like Franny’s in Prospect Heights and Una Pizza Napoletana in the East Village first fired up their ovens at the dawn of the artisanal pizza age.

There has been slippage since. Anthony Mangieri, the obsessive behind Una Pizza Napoletana, sold his space to Mr. Palombino last year and moved to San Francisco.

Fads fade. And rise again. Later this year Keith McNally will open a pizzeria on the Bowery, Pulino’s, with Nate Appleman, lately of A16 in San Francisco. The debut is likely to be attended by some fanfare. Mr. McNally is to restaurant publicity as Emanuel Ax is to his Steinway.

Motorino kept chugging along. And in the process, it became something more than an excellent pizzeria. It became a good restaurant.

Of the two locations, the one in the East Village, small and built by Mr. Mangieri, is the less hospitable, though this does nothing to the quality of the pies. It is a narrow East Village storefront, with hard angles everywhere and an atmosphere that runs ever so slightly in the direction of an ice cream parlor.

You can find a $175 Amarone on its wine list, which has been curated by Fred Dexheimer, a former BLT sommelier. To order it would be to render oneself a cartoon. Motorino is a good restaurant. It’s not that good.

Better to take the L train the three stops into Brooklyn and enjoy the benefits of Kings County real estate: a large high-ceilinged room with warm incandescent lighting over wooden floors and soft-hued marble, the scent of the wood oven and the taste, against a cold Peroni, of transcendent pizza.

A restaurant is more than a pizzeria, of course. Mr. Palombino, Belgian-born and a product of some of the city’s best high-ticket restaurants (for a time he ran the kitchen at BLT Fish), appears to understand that well. A meal in his restaurants does more than result in simply a Homerish mmm-good sigh at the quality of the margherita pie.

(But, wow, that margherita pie is good: perfect-pitch dough with exactly the correct ratios of tomato to cheese to surface area to char to bubble and flat.)

Mr. Palombino has put thought into appetizers: a wonderfully bright and flavorful farro salad, say; or a small plate of baby spinach and prosciutto spun together with stracciatella so that it becomes a new take on creamed spinach; or a plate of nutty, rich, fire-roasted mortadella that could serve as the explanation for the inclusion of fried bologna in the good-food hall of fame.

His beet salad has a little red onion for acidity, some boiled egg for base, a little white anchovy for salt and tang, and ricotta salata to keep everyone cool. The dish never loses focus. It is a paragon of beet salad. (But he isn’t a god. His spicy roasted octopus and potato on East 12th Street tastes neither spicy nor roasted.)

The margherita is Motorino’s baseline dish. Mr. Palombino provides two, one attached to an AOC designation as if it were a product of Naples. It features buffalo mozzarella along with tomatoes and basil. The regular uses plain old cow’s milk cheese. Both are outstanding.

But a winter-special pie of brussels sprouts and smoked pancetta, dressed with mozzarella, garlic and pecorino, is like something from a magic act, a dog speaking BBC English. It is great and unsettling, far better than imagination would dictate.

A cremini mushroom and spicy sausage pie, with smoked scamorza cheese, garlic, thyme and pecorino, arrives at the table ever so slightly watery, a little off-putting. Within five minutes it heals itself, and thus rewards the wait before eating.

Choose white or red: a stracciatella pie, the cheese melted into the dough with patches of basil on top, with a drizzle of olive oil and a dusting of sea salt, grilled cheese for grown-ups; or a filetti one, with mozzarella, cherry tomatoes and a welcome bit of thyme that recalls the soft warmth of southern France.

For dessert, there are bombolini — essentially jelly doughnuts, and delicious. These are a curiosity, as eccentric, welcome and interesting as Mr. Palombino himself: a celebrity chef who cooks pizza, a talented restaurateur who meets his modest goals with grace and wit.

Lou Borrani, the owner of La Enoteca, is bullish on his city’s foodie scene. “Rotterdam is the culinary capital of Holland at the moment,” Mr. Borrani claims, and he’s doing everything he can at his restaurant to bolster the boast.

Mr. Borrani, a sommelier by training, said he felt compelled to open the restaurant after he noticed a Rotterdam trend: “It was always the food in the first place and never the wine.”

There’s no question where the emphasis lies at La Enoteca: the sommeliers (three, including Mr. Borrani, in the 60-seat restaurant) refer to the bulk of the menu — 22 pages in total — as a “wine library”; the food offerings fill one lonely page at the back.

That extensive wine list features offerings grouped by country and type, and the servers will gladly share their knowledge about every last bottle. Before ordering our meal, my wife and I learned from Jaco Gouwen, our waiter and one of the sommeliers, about the differences between the Austrian and Portuguese wine markets. (We settled on a bottle of 2006 Vila Santa, from the Portuguese region of Alentejo.) The interaction had put us at ease; Enoteca’s space has that effect. The décor manages to be both sleek and homey, with exposed brick on one wall amplified by mirrors on the other, hardwood floor and tables and, of course, plenty of wine racks.

And though the focus on wine is also evident on the menu, by the end of the meal, the food had won us over. The chef Giuseppe Migliaccio, originally from Bologna, adjusts sauces to pair the meats and fish properly with the chosen bottle.

“It’s a joint venture with people at the table,” Mr. Borrani said. “We, the sommeliers, will discuss the menu with the guest, and the chef goes in harmony with the sommeliers.”

Heaping portions of tiger shrimp and chanterelle mushrooms danced in the tang of a red-wine-spiked vegetable vinaigrette. The second course — tournedos of organic beef from the renowned local butcher De Groene Weg, oven-baked to tender perfection and doused in a sauce of its own juices and, again, red wine — left little room for the pineapple tarte Tatin we shared for dessert.

Luckily, a touch of wine remained in our bottle. 

EVERYTHING is new in New York save for that which is old, and when something goes from one to the other, the transition can be sudden and surprising: a wet foal that’s suddenly distinguished and large, a horse that rides with the weight of history on its back.

Ten years ago, for instance, Strip House wasn’t a venerable steakhouse in Greenwich Village, with familiar cheesecake pictures on the scarlet flocked walls and 40-year-old men drinking Cutty at the bar, reminiscing about 30th birthdays spent there, how they’d stolen the racy Frette napkins off their table and taken the marrow bones the restaurant used to serve along with the steaks home to their dogs, now dead. They’d done the same thing at 32, at 36. (Maybe at 39, too? Such a history to the place!)

No, in 2000, Strip House was just new and strange, a kind of simulacrum of a bordello restaurant in a city that might have been anywhere in America. All that was aged about it were the steaks and the sepia-toned portraits of forgotten opera stars on the wall, left over from when Strip House was Asti, an Italian joint made famous by its role in the Tom Hanks vehicle “Big.” It was a dining room for the green.

William Grimes, in a review for The New York Times that year, wrote that Strip House wasn’t so much a steakhouse as “a catalog of hip references to the idea of a steakhouse.” He awarded the restaurant one star.

Now it deserves two. Age has given David Rockwell’s design for the room a kind of gravitas, and with it the restaurant has gained some of the clubby appeal you used to be able to find at places like Gino, on Lexington Avenue, which has a similar layout, or in the bar room at “21.” (As at “21,” there is great fun to be had in snooping about the place. In addition to portraits of Viennese strippers, torch singers and ancient celebrities on the walls, there is a signed portrait of Thurgood Marshall near the bar.)

The service is professional and attentive, with none of the gruff theatricality that attends tables at Sparks or Smith & Wollensky. The wine list is comprehensive and interesting, with reds to surprise palates and draw the attention of expense-account auditors alike.

And the food is generally marvelous, the steak often superb. Strip House belongs to Peter and Penny Glazier, the restaurant tycoons who own Michael Jordan’s in Grand Central Terminal, as well as mimeographed Strip Houses in Las Vegas and Houston, in Florida and New Jersey. The Glaziers buy a lot of meat. They use the leverage to secure excellent product.

John Schenk, the executive chef at Strip House since 2006, makes sure of its use. He has his line cooks grill the steaks tight and well, with a thick crust of salt and pepper that highlights the deep flavor of the beef. (The marrow bones may be gone, but a sprig of rosemary, stuck into a bulb of roasted garlic, still accompanies each steak.)

Best is the New York strip, served on the bone and out of the short loin of the cow, 20 ounces of muscle that make up the bottom part of a porterhouse. The strip is the restaurant’s signature steak: beefy and rich, tender, with the kind of giant, mineral-tinged flavor that puts elbows on the table and calls as much for martinis as for wine.

Paired with a colossal ovoid of potatoes fried in goose fat, and a vat of creamed spinach made chic with black truffles, Strip House’s strip is on its way to becoming an iconic New York City meal, perhaps one day to take a place near the pan roast at the Oyster Bar, or the Grand Marnier shrimp at Shun Lee.

There are other cuts available: a catcher’s mitt of rib-eye, with perhaps a little too much fat for the Michelin inspector; a wide porterhouse served in the Peter Luger style, with butter sauce; and a few versions of filet mignon, including a special that comes grilled on the bone. These last do as filet mignon generally does. They disappoint. (If someone insists on the filet, insist on a boat of Mr. Schenk’s excellent béarnaise sauce to go with it.)

But a veal chop will work for anyone interested in a glorious reminder why we love grilled veal: it’s deeply sweet and tender beneath its crust, pale and pink, trembling good. And a rack of pungent, delicately fatted lamb in a mustardy bread-crumb crust, served with a soft white-bean stew, makes a strong case for inclusion on any table. It’s grassy and rich, not at all gamy, with beans that melt in their sauce.

And while the goose-fat potatoes and truffled creamed spinach represent the top of the side-dish heap, it may also be worth considering a cone of golden fries; or a plate of crisp, gigantic onion rings; or even a baked potato with bacon, Cheddar, chives and sour cream that’s straight out of the American past. Steamed broccoli? It sits on the table like a prude. Douse it in béarnaise immediately.

There is more than steak and potatoes on the menu, of course. A terrific bibb lettuce salad with Stilton vinaigrette sits on the appetizer list beside roasted bacon with arugula and Russian dressing, a sorority girl in her first low-cut blouse, across a table from a trader in broadcloth and loosened tie. Both are great. There is an irreproachable shrimp cocktail, a better crab cake, with bright corn salsa and a spicy rémoulade, even a beet salad that’s worth a strong look. (Avoid the house-made jerky, leathery and wan.)

Yellowfin tuna with a green peppercorn sauce and a kind of sushi-bar vegetable roll is ruddy and rich, well cooked beneath a coating of sesame seeds. But pan-seared red snapper in a basil sauce, with a nice run of artichokes, pancetta and fingerlings beneath it, isn’t going to win the year’s sustainable-seafood award. For that, it’s still deeply flavorful, flaky and clean. You can always have lobster, fat beneath its hard shell, an Atlantic success story, a mess worth making.

Desserts are of course available, but really there is but one to order, and for the table: a 24-layer chocolate cake the size of a stunt gift in the Neiman Marcus catalog. It’s neatly covered in ganache, fantastically rich and good, the size of a house cat formed into a triangle. Chase your portion with an espresso or tumbler of bourbon, maybe a glass of milk. It might make you feel younger.

LIMONCELLO, whose lemon yellow and white striped awnings might be more at home on Capri than in Mamaroneck, now occupies the building where Ye Olde Tollgate Steakhouse once thrived. To call Limoncello a throwback would be unkind, but aspects of this new-traditional Italian remind me of venerable restaurants with names like Manaro’s and Nino’s, with their formal waiters, veal Marsala and big plates of spaghetti. I mean this as a compliment.

Limoncello, named for the trendy lemon liqueur, is comfortably familiar, but it also has a certain sophistication, like a valet who holds open the front door before parking the car. The cooking is Old World at heart — robust flavors, simple garnishes — but there are enough small surprises, like the zebra-striped jumbo lobster ravioli with baby shrimp in a blush gin sauce, to set it apart from formulaic family-style Italian restaurants. And the décor is fresh and direct: white tablecloths, honey-toned walls, glossy white woodwork, a gleaming slab of Carrera marble atop the bar.

My husband at one point said, “My parents would have loved this restaurant.” And I knew exactly what he meant; his parents ate out frequently, and they gravitated to places that were relaxed but still had manners.

Limoncello, though, has something of a split personality. On a Wednesday night, the place was subdued, with plenty of elbow room, attentive service and carefully plated food. On a Saturday night, service unraveled; entrees, long in coming, arrived in a big rush, to a table still cluttered with appetizer plates. Overcooked asparagus spears draped over the plate rims, as if tossed on for the ride at the last minute.

Of three “secondi” courses we tried, a thick salmon filet with capers and lemon sauce was silky at center (but the “baby artichokes” promised on the menu translated into one big canned artichoke heart); chicken scarpiello was textbook; and a rib-eye steak “pizzaiola” was bold and flavorful. At midweek, roasted potatoes, served with all three entrees, were hot and crisp, with beautiful bronze facets; on a busy Saturday night, they were lukewarm and lackluster.

Antipasti dishes and insalata were hits on both occasions, and diners should consider making a meal from an assortment of them. I loved the fetching frutti di mare, a salad staged like a miniature floor show, with shrimp tails flipped on end, and the crunchy, creamy arancini (“little oranges”), deep-fried globes of arborio rice and melty mozzarella, speckled with ground beef and peas, and seasoned with saffron.

We also liked the tiny, supple mussels steeped in vodka and beer; grilled mushrooms stuffed with smoked mozzarella, parmigiano, pecorino romano and gorgonzola; fried eggplant scrolls filled with ricotta; and a light, bright tricolore salad.

There are a dozen pastas to choose from. The free-form lasagna Amalfi was hearty and good, but the linguine puttanesca had a ratio problem: a huge tangle of pasta with too little sauce.

The wine list was needlessly confusing, with white wines listed in the “red” column (our waiter said this would soon be remedied). On a Saturday night, two wines we asked for were not in stock; Bibbiani’s 2008 Poggio Vignoso Chianti, presented by the impeccably dressed manager as an alternative, had simple charms, but the price — $35 for a bottle that can be found at retail for $8.99 — seemed unsporting. For white, we liked the 2007 Beni di Batasiolo Gavi ($30), with its citrus and almond flavors.

Desserts — most made elsewhere — were roundly disappointing, with the notable exception of unembellished pistachio gelato in a stylish silver martini glass. But the coffee was excellent. And thanks to our waiter, who had asked for our valet ticket, our car was waiting for us when we stepped out into the cold. 

 NOVITÁ is a designer shoe box of a restaurant around the corner from Gramercy Park, a basement room on East 22nd Street, a perfect neighborhood trattoria.

It has excellent pasta. In any other metropolis in North America, it would be well known among that city’s best places to eat. In many cities, it would sit atop the heap.

But in New York, a lot of people have never heard of the place. (How cool is that?) This is testament to the strength of our restaurant scene, to the sheer abundance of good restaurants here. And Novitá is a very good restaurant.

The restaurant’s walls are the color of old chamois. There are heavy windows along the street that look out onto the sidewalk as if they were part of a stage set for Audrey Hepburn. Flowers sit on their sills.

Beneath them is a clientele that is perfectly New Yorkish: old and young and middle-aged, white and black, riotously Italian and fashion-forward, Mitteleuropean and plain.

For the uninitiated: Novitá opened in 1994. (For those with elephantine memories, the space was once Huberts.) Marco Fregonese was an owner then as now, also the chef. He had cooked at Mezzaluna and Mezzogiorno before opening Novitá; he started his career in Milan cooking for Gualtiero Marchesi, whose restaurant was the first in Italy to earn three Michelin stars.

Mr. Fregonese knows from fancy, as Ruth Reichl pointed out in a review of Novitá in The New York Times, published in July 1995. He seemed “swept away by the desire to be creative,” she wrote. Ms. Reichl awarded the restaurant one star.

It has gotten better since. Mr. Fregonese has moved away from some of the ornate, fussy preparations that used to mark his cooking and toward a plain and hearty style well suited to longevity.

A plate of gramigna alla carbonara, for instance, thin strands of curled pasta with eggs, pecorino romano, guanciale and black pepper, arrives on the table as a riot of simplicity, a four-member noise band. It is outstanding, firm and pliant, salty and sweet, slick and sticky and rich.

A simple appetizer plate of grilled portobello, shiitake and oyster mushrooms, with shavings of Parmesan over the top, is similarly plain — and similarly packed with flavor. (Shiitakes stuffed with shrimp and scallions, then pan-fried, are more complicated — and very hard to stop eating.)

Breaded baby eggplant baked with tomato, mozzarella and Parmesan is like something out of a Bensonhurst fever dream. If served on a hero there, it would give veal a run for its money.

Asparagus gratin you probably shouldn’t eat till spring, so as not to encourage FedEx farming, but it’s wonderful all the same, bright beneath its butter, nutty with cheese.

And a small plate of hand-cut prosciutto with airlifted melon slices tastes like Manhattan’s past made living, like a delicious early dinner at Mezzogiorno, in fact, with Marlboro smoke drifting out through the open windows on Spring Street and people arguing about Mary Boone.

There was quite a bit of meat on that plate, for the record, and no shortage of melon. The portion sizes at Novitá are notable. They may surprise those who make it their business mostly to eat at the city’s newest kitchens, people with a genetic predisposition to this year’s model, people with cats named Umami and Speck. You won’t go away hungry from Novitá; the plates are food, not art.

To this point, Mr. Fregonese has clearly thought about the visual composition of each dish. But none of the food at Novitá looks as if someone spent a lot of time moving it around with his fingers, making it just so. That, too, is welcome.

So is the restaurant’s wine list, which is of an agreeable size and breadth, with some nice reds out of the Veneto (including a nice “baby Amarone” from Allegrini, 2006) and Tuscany (try the vino nobile from Avignonesi, 2006) that offer good flavor in the $50 range.

The pastas are just ridiculous: perfectly prepared, full of flavor, a rejoinder to low expectations.

You might try a bright and floral pesto over the long cavatelli pasta known as strozzapreti, or priest chokers, studded with pine nuts and salted with Parmesan. Or a plain penne with roasted tomatoes, basil and mozzarella that tastes of triangular perfection, summer on a midwinter plate. Black spaghettini with mixed seafood and a spicy tomato sauce is worth a mini-fad in itself, with pasta that is toothsome and a sauce made rich with lobster.

Three more: little ears of orecchiette with spicy sausage and broccoli rabe in tomato sauce; papparadelle with lamb ragù and earthy porcini mushrooms; rigatoni with seared tuna, black olives, tomatoes and oregano. These are like postcards from an Italy of the mind, color swatches to recolor your world.

Indeed, the best way to order them is as a table, asking the waiter if each person might get a portion of the other’s order. This is a very nice way to eat dinner.

Main courses are less successful, though by no means off-putting.

Seared tuna with a black pepper crust and lemon sauce may be the parachute pants of entrees, but it is perfectly done fish for that, under velvety lemon sauce. A filet mignon with more of that asparagus and a dark Barolo sauce is banquet food, but of the sort that forgives the banquet.

But there is also a splendid veal Milanese with rucola and tomates, crisp and juicy, the sort of dish you could eat once a week, and a rolled chicken breast stuffed with spinach and prosciutto that revives confidence in both chicken breasts and stuffing them.

Eat these, with some fresh berries for dessert, some lemon-mint sorbet, a creamy mille foglie, cemented with custard, and savor a glass of amaro or a well-drawn espresso. Giuseppe Delpiano, the host and an owner of the restaurant, sits at the bar eating his own dinner as around him conversation gurgles, an urban stream. There is one older couple holding hands over their table. A man in a ponytail fiddles with his earring. Someone laughs.

At times Novitá resembles the lobby of the Angelika theater, or a late afternoon ride on the M102.

It provides a jury pool that would understand completely what brought you to do what the prosecutors say you did. It is hard to eat there and not think yourself lucky.

Marooned on the cobblestones of a Brooklyn neighborhood so cozily forlorn that you could easily imagine the clomping of a night coach passing by, Vinegar Hill House is one of those vintage joints wherein certain elements — distressed-wood furniture, roaring fireplace, bartenders with Reconstruction-era facial hair — conspire to give a feeling of homey, antique cheer. Located at 72 Hudson Street, not far from the Brooklyn Navy Yard, it has been the only restaurant in the immediate area. Not for long. A few nights ago, the brain trust of a soon-to-open spot came by to sample the competition.

Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s latest, in the newly redone Mark Hotel, is something of a multiplex.

A bar at the entrance is done in dappled pony skin and leather, accented with mirrors and shiny metal, with sinuous amoeba-esque forms. Past it, a corridor of wine racks leads to a spacious lounge with another bar, including a nice little raw bar.

In this area, and the 90-seat dining room beyond it, the palette of the designer, Jacques Grange, turns coppery, and the organic shapes give way to stripes and squares, with bright Venetian glass columns punctuating the walls. In one section, the ceiling of the restaurant was raised to incorporate an original glass ceiling that had been in the hotel’s second-floor banquet room. Mr. Grange designed the entire hotel.

In the kitchen, the chef, Pierre Schutz, who has worked with Jean-Georges for decades, has a menu [pdf] that’s quite a departure from what he was doing at Vong until it closed in November.

“It’s going back to Lafayette days,” Mr. Schutz said, referring to Mr. Vongerichten’s first high-profile restaurant in New York, which was awarded four stars by Bryan Miller in The New York Times in 1988, about a year and a half after it opened. Mr. Schutz was also in the kitchen there in the 1980s, collaborating on finely wrought dishes like a marbled carpaccio of black bass and tuna.

But would Lafayette have had a menu like this one, with creamy tomato soup, a Caesar salad, a simple seafood platter, crab cake, tagliatelle with tomato and basil, grilled sea bass, a cheeseburger and a number of choices “simply grilled or steamed” with sauces on the side? Unlike Lafayette, Mr. Vongerichten’s latest is not done up for special-occasion dining.

Mr. Vongerichten calls it “comfort food.” Perhaps, but with great finesse in the details.It will be à la carte, with main courses rarely reaching $30. The lounge will have its own menu. 

In October, when managing partner Doug Palley relocated Hooked, his 45-seat seafood restaurant and carryout in Sterling, he took over a space three miles away with an extra 6,500 square feet to expand on the original concept. Aiming to conjure "South Beach, Los Angeles or Soho," the entrepreneur poured $3 million into a 200-plus-seat dining room and bar that he also hoped would suggest something "ocean-y."

That explains the porthole framing a video of sea waves inside the foyer. Palley's wishes are further realized in the vast beyond, where Palladian windows pull in streams of sunlight, the many curves suggest an ocean liner, and recessed lights in the ceiling glow in rotation from violet to green to turquoise and back. Sheer, steel-beaded curtains add a chic touch to the booths hugging a wall and the sushi bar that dominates the back of the room.

Richard Beckel, Hooked's first chef, is gone, as is Jason Tepper, who opened the new place and was recently replaced by Josh Kephart, late of the Wine Kitchen in Leesburg. But a handful of dishes from the old kitchen found their way into the young one, among them respectable, lightly breaded calamari and fat crab cakes set on mustard sauce.

Hot meals were not the highlights of recent visits, however, which found muted "Cajun spiced" bluefish, a snooze of a swordfish kebab and a side dish of mushrooms, bacon and grapes that tasted more like some cooks had bumped into one another than an actual recipe.

At this point, the restaurant's strengths are its engaging service and its raw fish. Credit for the latter goes to sushi chef Yoshi Katsuyama, whose handiwork floats in and out of view on video monitors above the sushi counter. ("People like to see what they're going to order," says his boss.) In one appetizer, velvety folds of raw white tuna get a kick from a sauce stinging with green chili peppers. In a featured roll, bites of salmon drape over dice-size cubes of rice packaging fresh mint and matchsticks of mango. Both presentations are something you could imagine getting hooked on.

The grocery list for one of the best bites at Acacia Bistro is a mere four ingredients. If you've never experienced anchovies slipped between small pieces of French bread sauteed in olive oil and a suggestion of butter, you're missing out on one of the simplest pleasures around: The faint crunch of the hot bread gives way to a gentle shock as the tongue hits the racy center. "Anchovy toasts," as the menu bills them, don't need any embellishment, but they come with a cool dip of lemony mayonnaise that only makes the munch more irresistible.

Liliana Dumas is back in the kitchen, this time in restaurant-starved Van Ness and as a headliner rather than a helpmate. The native of Liguria, in northwestern Italy, is best known for keeping diners in their seats for dessert at, among other places, Assaggi Mozzarella Bar in Bethesda and the late Locanda on Capitol Hill. At the new restaurant, the 73-year-old chef is doing savory as well as sweet food, while also charming her fan club with appearances in the 50-seat dining room.

One night, I catch her bussing a customer's cheek. Another time, I spot her sending out a new dish for a patron to taste. The ambassador of Monaco, who lives nearby, is partial to her delicate, deep-fried pastries stuffed with squash, leeks and Parmesan, says Dumas. (Full disclosure: I've been a recipient of some of those edible previews.) Most of the time, however, only the chef's head is visible behind a curtain or a window looking into Acacia Bistro's tiny kitchen.

There are small plates to begin; $18 gets you three. Turkish meatballs dotted with yogurt resemble flat sliders. They're dense, to my taste, and not nearly as much fun as the herbed shrimp, squid and mussels kissed with citrus and glistening with olive oil. Eggplant with a cover of cheese and a lackluster tomato sauce takes a back seat to the simpler crostini slathered with local goat cheese charged with rosemary and black pepper. Anything spreadable should be explored. Dumas's bacalao, one of those many small plates, is a sensational mash of dried cod cooked in warm milk and flavored with garlic, parsley and sauteed leeks. Her flatbreads are good, too. Rugged chorizo and melted manchego on a crackery canvas is among the choices that I like to share with friends as we settle in.

The presence behind the sleek bar is Dumas's son, Michel, who gathers wines from all over and offers them in four serving sizes, from a half-glass to a full bottle. His collection of 80 or so labels is priced to elicit a smile from whoever picks up the check (most bottles are under $40), and the inventory guarantees something pleasant to accompany the chef's delicate cod sparked with capers or homey veal chunks paired with grill-branded polenta.

Six burners and a single grill limit what the chef can do. She doesn't make her own pastas at Acacia Bistro, but that doesn't mean some of them aren't homemade. One of the best, a Ligurian special of spinach pansotti glossed with a butter-and-sage sauce, turned out to be the handiwork of Dumas's husband, Maurice, her sidekick at the late Trattoria Liliana on Connecticut Avenue NW. On doctor's orders, he no longer cooks full time, although he brings to the bistro some of his efforts from home, including herbs and vegetables from the couple's garden in Alexandria. Liliana Dumas gets credit for a dish no one at my table wanted to share after they tried it: Bowtie pasta decorated with sweet flakes of crab meat, cranked up with black pepper and swabbed with vodka cream sauce is too delicious to pass along.

Lunch finds light streaming through the glass walls and lots of panini (grilled portobello with goat cheese; a twist on a Cuban sandwich using chicken) on the menu. The burgers lean to the good-for-you: Picture patties of salmon, buffalo or turkey, the last thin but juicy and perked up with crumbles of feta cheese. All the sandwiches come with a nice salad of mixed greens dressed in a teasing vinaigrette.

It's not always smooth sailing here. Gnocchi might be pasty when it leaves the kitchen. Leg of lamb was overcooked -- twice. The young waiters are cordial but not very attentive (it's hard to catch their eye when you need wine or the bill), and the tables are too small to accommodate everything you order. Otherwise, I like the arty, industrial dining room of high ceilings and brushed-concrete floors.

Of course, you save room for dessert here. Dumas's cakes and other confections are appreciated for their moistness and restraint. Pistachio, chocolate, chestnut or pear, rather than sugar, are flavors apt to get played up in her winning recipes. It doesn't hurt that the woman who made them sometimes delivers them to the table: another motherly touch. 

At a glance: The hip typeface on the big, bold sign in front of Maple Avenue Restaurant is your first clue that this eatery is a grand departure from the Anita's that once occupied this space. Step inside the tiny dining room, and you're greeted with a few others: granite tabletops, contemporary art on the walls and a menu of small and large plates that mix American flavors, Asian accents and French technique.

The 28-seat restaurant is a dream come true for chef-owner Tim Ma, who left his electrical engineering job in 2007 to pursue a career in cooking. His path led him to the French Culinary Institute in New York, a four-month externship at David Chang's renowned Momofuku Ko and a month-and-a-half stint cooking in St. Thomas. In March of 2009, Ma and girlfriend Joey Hernandez returned home to Northern Virginia with the hopes of opening their own place. They found this small building, spent a few months rehabbing it with friends and family, and opened the restaurant in August.

On the menu: It takes only two servers to cover the dining room on an average night and these gals are on message. "Have you dined with us before?" they ask. "We offer small plates, main plates and sweet plates." Diners can choose to eat tapas-style and order two to three small plates or have a small plate as an appetizer and a main plate as an entree.

The small-plate menu is worth mining. Rings of okra get a kick from a light Thai chili sauce. Plump sweet potato gnocchi sit on a pedestal of ham, mushrooms and caramelized onions. A garnish of micro greens adds color and fresh flavor to the rich wintry dish. A light arugula salad is more springlike. Crispy curls of prosciutto are tossed with well-dressed leaves, olives and a dab of chevre.

Main plates offer a similar mix of global flavors. The bulgogi dish nods to Korea with lettuce wraps, well-seasoned beef and kimchi. A pickled slaw punches up a mustardy pulled pork barbecue sandwich. The tangy combo pairs nicely with the buttery bun and shatteringly crisp french fries.

Do not skip dessert under any circumstances. Dumplings of molten chocolate are a challenge to eat -- the chocolate spills out once you take a bite -- but they're a playful way to end a meal. The yuzu-lime pie (a recipe Ma and Hernandez crafted together) delivers a shot of citrus tempered with the sweetness of cream and a crumbly crust. Regulars are already on the dessert bandwagon; Hernandez estimates that 80 percent of diners order a sweet plate.

At your service: The servers fit in with the casual-sleek vibe here. They dress in black, move gracefully between the tight tables and helpfully direct you to hits on the menu.

What to avoid: Potstickers and Spanish dumplings are fine appetizers -- and clearly popular with regulars -- but they didn't have the wow factor of other small plates. Ribs braised in a Dr. Pepper sauce tempted us with the unusual ingredient, but the essence of the fizzy soda was elusive.

Wet your whistle: A nice wine list and a few craft beer selections are the focus of the drinks menu, but the restaurant also offers a small cocktail menu and nonalcoholic options such as tea, apple cider and flavored hot chocolate. There's a bar at the back of the building (separate entrance) that seats 18 to 20 and serves as a space for diners to wait for a table, eat a full meal or host private parties.

Bottom line: Ma approaches his menu with a spirit of experimentation and fun. Diners can expect the same when they order -- if they can snag a seat. 

When Madhatter relocated from its well-worn roost on M Street NW, where it had served beer and burgers since 1981, to a location on Connecticut Avenue NW with more than triple the space, its owners decided to upgrade everything else, too.

They hired a pro, chef Bobby Varua, late of 701, to remake the menu.

They set the tables with teacups, in line with the Alice in Wonderland theme, and began greeting customers with hot tea sweetened with apricot simple syrup.

The owners even hired an art director. Lauren Houston, a freelance graphic designer based in New York, says her job was to give the 7,000-square-foot space "a somewhat structured Victorian elegance" but to make it "quirky."

To that end, she created big collages of characters from Lewis Carroll's classic children's books -- "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There" -- then framed them and mounted the art on the walls of the expansive main dining room. Houston also hired a sculptor from Pennsylvania to create a four-foot-high papier-mache top hat, which now graces a front window. In a private upstairs dining room, there's a funhouse mirror above the mantel; the ground floor features The Upside-Down Room outfitted with an upside-down table set for a tea party -- and suspended from a ceiling painted to resemble a checkerboard floor. (Light fixtures poke through faux candy dishes.)

It's all great fun, and pretty tasty. The kitchen grills an impressive burger, which it delivers with a thatch of good fries. Fried chicken pieces pop out of an adorable miniature fry-basket on the plate. The entree's coleslaw drowns in cream, but the chicken is piping hot, crisp and juicy: finger-lickin' good. Varua also makes room on his menu for dishes whose sophistication might have raised eyebrows at the original watering hole. They include rack of lamb with apricot sauce and hash browns, and salmon served with an orange-curry glaze and soft polenta. (The menu hasn't gone completely fancy on us. There's Frito pie, after all, topped with house-made chili.)

The saloon-turned-restaurant quietly opened its new doors in early February, but it saved March 5 to toast the launch. Perfect timing: Last Friday was also the debut of Tim Burton's latest flick, "Alice in Wonderland."


3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly.
Cocktail tables along the cliffs have full-on views of El Arco, making this the best place to toast to the sunset and another beautiful day in Los Cabos before moving to the candlelit dining room. Or merely remain outside, and enjoy dining alfresco. Italian Chef Emanuele Olivero has paid his dues in Los Cabos, with time at La Dolce in San José, at C in the Palmilla, and also at Pitahayas, before bringing his ideas to full fruition here at the Mona Lisa. The restaurant's four seasonal menus all depend on the ingredients that are in season at that particular time. How about ravioli filled with pumpkin, or La Paz blue crab covered with a cinnamon white sauce? Or seared halibut with crunchy polenta, sun-dried tomatoes, and asparagus tempura? Or go all out with the Grand Mona Lisa Tasting Menu, and try just about everything on their extensive menu. The restaurant is not really in the Corridor, but not really in town either; just a couple of miles up the hill—a short and relatively inexpensive taxi ride, well worth the trip for a sunset cocktail and dinner. Make sure you appreciate their Mona Lisa tile artwork both close-up and standing back a distance—an interesting optic illusion ensues.
La Cantinetta Antinori
Palazzo Antinori 3 Tel. (055) 292-234, closed Saturdays & Sundays (you'll want to make reservations in the summer).
In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.
I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.
For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.
The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.
Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.
Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.
Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.
It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.
Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.
Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays
In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.
Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.
The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.
SEVERAL years ago I was taken to task by a friend of mine for what he saw as a slur on Rhyl’s West End in my review of the India Garden restaurant. If my memory serves me right the write-up was generally complimentary, but I was not too kind about the location in Abbey Street, right in the heart of the town’s bedsit-land.
Since then some things have certainly changed – many properties in the area are undergoing a facelift and further redevelopment is afoot – but there are still numerous tatty, boarded-up premises in and around Abbey Street.
About two years ago the India Gardens became an Italian restaurant, and in more recent times it has changed hands yet again. Now known as Massimo’s, it remains an Italian restaurant.
How that came about is surprising in itself, and a massive vote of confidence in the direction in which Rhyl is heading.
Maxmillian Stummer and his partner Charlotte Schofield had no intention of opening a restaurant when they visited Rhyl as they had no experience of running such a business.
Maxmillian was a website designer who enjoyed cooking, and with so much redevelopment taking place in the town he thought it offered him opportunities. It was sheer chance that he was shown the restaurant, and after much thought the couple took the giant step to have a go.
Abbey Street is still far from being the most salubrious location and, to be honest, the outside of Massimo’s does not present the most inviting prospect, especially on a cold, wet night such as when we visited.
But step inside and the picture changes dramatically, with comfortable sofas near the door and attractive, cast iron and marble furniture. The whole atmosphere is welcoming.
I understand that weekends are pretty hectic but on the Thursday of our visit we – myself, sister, daughter and wife, who was celebrating her birthday – were the only diners until one other couple arrived. That, however, did not detract from the evening as it so easily could have done.
My sister and I opted for the weekday special menu of three courses for £13.90, which proved to be exceptional value. We both had gnocchi al pomodoro, or potato gnocchi with tomato, garlic sauce and basil, which was piping hot and tangy.
Our daughter chose to "mix and match" having one of the listed starters, king prawns in garlic, olive oil and lemon as a main dish. It came with garlic baguette and, for £1.50 extra each, parsley potatoes and mangetout.
The potatoes were rather too salty but the prawns were succulent and plentiful, as I eagerly confirmed.
My wife had Diavola pizza – with tomato, cheese and spicy salami – accompanied by a massive bowl of mixed green salad. Excellent though it was and try as she might, she couldn't finish it, and took the leftovers home.
From the three main courses on the specials menu my sister had smoked salmon in a cream sauce, with peas and farfalle pasta, which drew a steady stream of complimentary sounds from her.
I had grilled chicken breast with garlic butter and chips, a large bowl of beautiful, crisp chips. At first the portion looked a little meagre in the centre of the large dish but it was all surprisingly filling and the meat was exceptionally tender.
Unfortunately, there was no tiramisu available so my sister and I were allowed to choose sweets from the main menu. I had warm home-made apple cake with vanilla ice-cream and my sister had warm chocolate cake with a melting middle, which left us both sated.
Unable to face a sweet, my wife and daughter finished with coffee, which was the biggest disappointment of the night as they found it "earthy" and weak.
Throughout the evening Charlotte proved a bright, perky waitress, obligingly meeting our personal whims.
As we went out all four of us agreed it had been a very pleasant evening. It’s to be hoped that the owners’ confidence in Rhyl’s West End proves justified and that Massimo’s, which is already building up a regular clientele, is here to stay.
As we drove away we were brought rapidly down to earth when we came across a police cordon and later learned that there had been another sudden death in the area.
When I think of Italian, I have to admit that I really don't think "Olive Garden". But our son wanted to go to a movie to meet some friends, and around the Northlake mall, there isn't a huge selection (there is a large selection, but most are chains) so we decided to try the new location and see how it was. The building is awesome. It's like a Tuscan villa. The food is pretty standard fare.
You probably won't be disappointed, and the bill won't be too bad, but it's not going to knock your socks off either. It left us just feeling so-so. The baked cheese appetizer was the bet thing we had, and that left quite a bit of time for realizing just how average the rest of the meal was. Even the desserts weren't that great. Better to have something good than nothing, but they should finish well instead of starting well, so you're not sittingCaesar's Restaurant has been in San Francisco for over 50 years, and I have been going there for at least 20 of those years. The food is served family style, it's authentic Italian, and the waitstaff is some of the best I've had and very friendly.
You certainly can't go wrong with the voted "City's Best" calamari that is fried to perfection. The veal steak (when available) is to die for, and their famous crab cioppino, available Tuesday thru Friday, is outrageous. Their pastas are wonderful, and if you’re lucky, you'll go on a night when chef-owner Matteo Crivello serves his Italian short ribs that melt in your mouth, a real treat.
The decor sets you back to the 50s era of what a gentlemen’s club might have been like. Italian light fixtures in the main dining room offer a soft glow. The leather, high back booths offer a bit of privacy, yet have an openness about them. The bar in the front is dark wood, and runs the length of the room, and has an inviting feel.
The restaurant also serves a five-course meal for a very reasonable price. They start you with antipasti, which includes an array of Italian meats and pickled vegetables. The next course is the wonderful minestrone soup, followed by a house salad. If you’re not too full, you choose from one of three entrees, which is followed by coffee, Italian spumoni ice cream, or Bugia, which is a type of thin Italian cookie dusted with powdered sugar and is made fresh at the restaurant daily. These are a must-have to end the meal. They instantly melt in your mouth. You can't find these anywhere else! They also have a hot zabaione, which is smooth and creamy, and if you have room, don't pass this up!
Their standard menu offers a large selection of choices as well as nightly specials.
We selected a Three Course dinner, but the restaurant added an extra fourth course:
Course #1. Assorted Antipasti: Plate of three cold cuts, marinated white cannelloni beans, tomatoes with mozzarella cheese.
Course #2. Soup or Salad: My fiancé ordered the minestrone soup, and I had a small shrimp mix green salad.
Course #3. Capellini with Neapolitan sauce. (Compliments of the chef)
Course #4. My fiancé ordered the Cannelloni alla Romana, which was filled with a delightful blend of pork, veal, and spinach and baked until golden brown, all smothered with cheese in a zesty tomato sauce. I ordered the special, Sicilian Seafood Pasta, which consisted of clams, mussels, white fish, salmon, and Dungeness crab served over a bed of linguine with a light and spicy tomato sauce.
Course #5. Dessert: Bugia (Sicilian cookies) with coffee.
Beverages: I had a Campari and soda while my fiancé enjoyed a glass of Chardonnay at the antique 50-60 year-old bar. It is worth sitting there and having a cocktail and taking in the surroundings of what old San Francisco might have been like back then.
There is one reason we keep going back, it's classic San Francisco North Beach Italian comfort food that will put a smile on your face every time. Simply put, I can't think of anywhere better to experience that then at Caesar’s Restaurant. there thinking about how good the first thing was.
Caesar's really is old school. When it comes to true Italian restaurants, they excel in every aspect. The service is friendly and authentic, and everyone was extremely hospitable. Walking in without any reservations, the kind hostess seated us immediately. The layout is a bit funny, as there are three separate rooms that make up the restaurant, but our table in the room adjacent to the bar was comfortable.
Immediately, I noticed that we were surrounded by families. Grandparents, their children, and their grandchildren were seated on all sides of us, and everyone was having a great time. My boyfriend and I (probably the only couple under 50) thoroughly enjoyed our Sicilian waiter and were served very quickly.
For a meat eater, their menu is really extensive. I ordered the gnocchi (my favorite Italian food), but they were completely out, so I opted for the capellini pasta, which was nice and light with just the right amount of chunky red sauce. The boyfriend had prosciutto and melon for a starter, which he really liked. He ordered the seafood combination plate for an entree.
The prices were very reasonable, even for the seven-course meal, which we both thought about getting, but we had to catch a show at Cobb's and figured the multiple courses would take a bit more time than we had to spare. Between dishes, the waiter brought over a plate of pasta with meat sauce for him to enjoy, which was a really nice touch. We weren't sure if it was because he didn't order a pasta dish for his entree, or because they just do that to keep people busy while they're waiting for their food. I noticed he did that for every other table as well, so it was a nice little bonus for him.
The decor is very classic and simple, but one thing I didn't really like was the lighting -- it was almost like a cafeteria inside the dining rooms. The interiors weren't ugly, but an update on the decor might make it just that much more interesting. We went in thinking it would be just a mediocre Italian place, but everything we had was great and the service was fantastic. Overall, we were very happy with our experience at Caesar's and will probably return in the coming weeks.
 can appreciate (and truly enjoy) hip gourmet Italian restaurants like Delfina or Beretta, but I’m also grateful for places like Caesar’s Italian Restaurant with its comfortable Old World atmosphere, the tuxedoed waiters, the white tablecloths, and the dining room bustle of large, multi-generational families. It’s not the kind of restaurant I tend to frequent, so I was immediately happy to be there.
We were a group of eight, and each of us ordered the seven-course meal, for which Caesar’s is known. With any entrée (and for roughly $30.00) you get a salad, vegetable soup, assorted antipasti, pasta with meat sauce, dessert, and coffee. The salad was fairly plain in appearance -- iceberg lettuce, slivers of carrot, a slice of beet -- but the mystery dressing (some kind of Italian/Thousand Island concoction), was surprisingly good. And everyone raved about the vegetable soup -- simple and warm, perfect for the cold night.
The assorted antipasti arrived as a group of shared plates -- there were the usual Italian meats and cheeses, green olives, marinated mushrooms, some kind of mystery vegetable that was covered in a slightly spicy sauce. Particularly good was the calamari, which tasted more like a ceviche -- lemony and cold. Of all the courses, this was my favorite, but also the most problematic.
The plates arrived all at once, with none of the waiters identifying what was what (I’m still unclear what that mystery vegetable was). We also were unclear if the calamari we’d ordered separately as an appetizer was the same calamari as the ceviche (it wasn’t). But the course was delicious, which perhaps was why we were so bummed out by the portions. While seven courses is certainly filling, we each had about two bites of the antipasti items. From the look of things, the antipasti for eight could have been the antipasti for two, and some of the items were taken away before we were finished with them.
Next was a saucer of penne pasta with meat sauce. It was fine, but nothing I needed to finish.
For my entrée, I ordered the veal scaloppine. The meat was tender, coated lightly with flour, and covered with mushrooms in a Marsala sauce. It was tasty, though not necessarily better than any other veal scaloppine I’d had before (I preferred my friend’s veal piccata and its pleasant, lemony flavor). Most of the entrees came with potatoes and a boiled vegetable that was either bok choy or kale (we couldn’t decide which) and they each served their purpose: a starch and something green. Other entrees at the table were the gnocchi, the pork chop, and the (somewhat greasy) halibut. I tasted each of them, and all were perfectly good. In fact, “perfectly good” is a fair assessment of Caesar’s food as a whole -- nothing surprising, just solid fare that one would expect from an old style Italian family restaurant.
Spumoni and coffee ended the meal. The spumoni was fine (Dreyer’s?) and the coffee was predictably mediocre.
The service was good, if a little frenetic, which I didn’t really mind. Given the chaos in the dining room (the place was packed), I was impressed that our waiter was able to maintain his charming demeanor, and after initially forgetting our calamari appetizer, he brought it to us on the house.
Though a bit pricey for what you get (about $50.00 a person), it might be fun to return with a large group of friends. The food at Caesar’s is fine, but it’s not the reason to come; there’s better to be had in North Beach or the Mission, and you can avoid the schlep to Caesar’s Fisherman’s Wharf location.
For me, Caesar’s is about atmosphere: the good bustle of multi-ethnic and multi-generational diners -- many of whom seemed like regulars -- celebrating birthdays and anniversaries. The waitstaff was friendly, conversational, even a little theatrical in the moments they stopped to chat. And the restaurant itself, with its vinyl booths, family photo-covered walls, and (what seemed to be) silk plants, felt authentic in its own way: it’s a restaurant that insists on being itself, which makes for a welcoming and comfortable dining experience for all who visit.
Housed in a magnificent church, complete with honey-coloured steeple and glinting stained glass, Zizzi Cheltenham commands kerb-appeal by the bucketload. The menu oozes with the sun-kissed flavours of the Mediterranean – brimming with hearty ingredients and homeley classics to get the tastebuds tingling. And, after a long walk from the nearest carpark with the temperature dropping to minus two, the Italian restaurant in Suffolk Square did indeed seem like a sanctuary.
Meeting a group of friends and family inside the vast dining room – including a grandmother huddled up with layers of generously donated coats – it was not the warm welcome we were hoping for, however. We asked if the door could be closed to stop the icy drafts which were howling across the restaurant, only to be met with a sneer and a simple ‘no’ from a stroppy member of staff who turned out to be a manager.
We asked if we could be moved – preferably to a table for eight, not the table for six that eight of us were squeezed onto. Another lip-curled ‘no’ with a ‘you should have booked sooner’ added with extra helpings of nonchalance. Ordinarily this alone would have been enough for mass mutiny, but as this was an (albeit hastily-booked) special celebration for another member of the group, no-one felt comfortable causing a ‘fuss’.
The starters were skipped, unsurprisingly – instead eight of us shared green olives and dough sticks while we waited for the main course to arrive – listening with agreement when three neighbouring tables also complained about the chilly temperatures, sardine-like spacing of the tables and cold shoulder they had been given by staff. The pack them high, sell them cheap ethos might work for cost-cutting supermarkets, we agreed, but like our fellow mid-market restaurant diners we were less than impressed by being herded in and hurried along.
When the food did arrive it was tepid, a problem put down to the chilly drafts making the single candle (and only source of heat) on our table flicker frantically. But a restaurant which specialises in Italian cuisine not managing to rustle up a mediocre margarita was quite frankly unforgivable – delivered to the table dry, burnt on the edges and with a cheese topping so paltry it was hardly worth bothering with.
The ‘mezzo y mezzo’ next to me didn’t fair much better either. An option selected for its uniqueness on paper it combined pepper, mushrooms, rocket, tomato and mozzarella on one half of the pizza and creamy potatoes, grana padano, and onion on the other. On the plate it was less intriguing, summarised as ‘tough as cardboard’ and requiring persistent sawing with a steak knife to cut.
My ‘pollo prosciutto’ could generously be described as average, meanwhile. Arriving on a plate smeared with greasy fingerprints, the chicken was dry despite swimming in oil, and lacked flavour, with the accompanying herb tossed potatoes and well-cooked green beans being the only redeeming features. The rest of the group were as nonplussed with their slapdash dishes, which we presumed had been left under a hot plate – ironic considering none had arrived anything more than luke warm.
By the time we were asked if everything was okay with our meal, it was time for a synchronised ‘no’ in response. Not wishing the rushed-off-his-feet-teenager serving us to bear the brunt of the complaints another manager was sought out – this time, one who at least took a few minutes to listen to our growing list of grievances.
He admitted that the restaurant was berated with complaints every Friday and Saturday by diners sat near the door, and that squeezing in as many covers as possible was probably the cause for such a disastrous night. While once again no apologies were made – and denying that a discount from the bill totalling almost £200 should perhaps be offered as an amends for the catalogue of complaints – the second manager did at least offer a glass of prosecco as a concession. One which sadly failed to drown our sorrows before we were hurried out into a sub-zero Suffolk Square almost as frosty as the service.
A venue popular with voucher-wielding diners in particular, Zizzi Cheltenham will no doubt continue to attract the crowds, but the cheapest of deals could not tempt SoGlos.com to make a return visit – thanks to a dining experience which could not have veered further from the Italian reputation for hearty cuisine, relaxed atmosphere and warm hospitality.
A PERGOLA HAS UNDERGONE AN INSPIRED FACELIFT SINCE I LAST ATE THERE A WHILE AGO.
Ornately painted vaulted ceiling and delightful wall murals depicting Italian country scenes make this a lovely spot to dine if you like Italian food and, as the restaurant specialises in traditional regional dishes as well as some old favourites, you may be spoilt for choice and also discover something a little different from the usual Italian restaurant fare. When I lunched there with my husband last week we enjoyed a well-cooked meal with courteous and efficient service.
I can never resist gnocchi when I eat Italian so as an appetizer I had to try the gnocchi di semolina con rotolo di spinaci-e-ricotta, which is semolina gnocchi and potato rolled, stuffed with spinach and ricotta, gratinated with parmesan cheese and served with tomato sauce - an absolutely superb start to a meal that I cannot recommend highly enough. My husband similarly enjoyed his choice of starter from the Italian regional cuisine menu of green and white pasta filled with ricotta and salmon, served with fontina cheese fondue. Also available are soups, salads and more regional starters, including homemade fresh basil noodles, tossed in seafood ragout and flavoured with pesto, and Italian rice cooked with chicken, asparagus and mushrooms. Appetizers, soups and salads are from BD1.800.
We wanted to try a couple of the regional dishes for our main course, so my husband chose sautéed veal escallops in a light thyme sauce, gratinated with roast peppers, artichoke and mushrooms, while I had the speciality chicken dish of La Pergola, pan-fried chicken breast filled with prawns. Both were very good.
There is also an excellent choice of fresh pasta dishes. Select from spaghetti, fettuccine, penne, rigatoni and fusilli pasta and choose a sauce from the variety on offer. Alla carbonara (pork or beef bacon enriched with egg yolk and cream), alla marinara (assorted seafood, garlic and tomato sauce) and al pesto (basil, pine nuts and olive oil flavoured with garlic and parmesan cheese) are just examples. There’s also a vast choice of pizza (select from thin base, deep dish or calzone style and enjoy a choice of toppings), fish, vegetarian and meat dishes, including brochette of salmon, prawns, mussels and sea scallops on a bed of lemon risotto; pancake filled with fontina and vegetables, glazed with cheese sauce, and garlic; and herb marinated best end of lamb with fresh mint sauce. Prices for pasta and main course dishes are from BD3.600.
For dessert we had deep-fried ice cream with exotic fruits and chocolate sauce, and warm apple tart with lemon and orange sauce served with ice cream, and to accompany the meal a very good Nottage Hill Chardonnay.
Located just off the main lobby of the hotel, La Pergola is open for lunch from 12 noon to 3:00 p.m. Saturdays to Thursdays, and for dinner from 7:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. daily. For reservations, call the restaurant’s direct line during opening times (973 17726186), or the Gulf Hotel’s main telephone number (973 17713000).All prices are subject to15% service charge and 5% government tax.
Dino is a casual Italian restaurant located just a block away from the National Zoo in the Cleveland Park neighborhood of Washington, DC. The innovative menu features a wide selection of dishes. The restaurant is known as a neighborhood favorite for great food and an excellent wine list.
Guide Review - Dino Restaurant Review - A Washington, DC Italian Restaurant
Dino is a small Italian restaurant featuring the flavors of Venice and Southern Tuscany. The menu includes a variety of warm and cold starters with traditional items such as antipasti, olive and prosciutto, and some unique offerings such as a Tuscan crepe: chicken, artichoke, roasted tomato, smoked mozzarella, pesto & tomato sauce and a wonderful Cold Roasted Red Pepper Soup. An extensive menu of Italian cheeses is available as well. Home made pastas can be ordered in a full or half size. They are uniquely prepared dishes such as Pappardelle ai Cinghiale,(ribbon pasta with wild boar) or Lasagnette al Ragu (pasta, pork & veal ragu). Other entrees include chicken, fish, lamb, beef and vegetarian specialties. For dessert, you'll find a nice selection of Italian specialties such as tiramisu, gelato, and biscotti and warm chocolate souffle cake. 
The restaurant, which accommodates a total of 104, has two dining rooms, each with its own ambiance. The first level offers plenty of natural light with large windows. The bar area can accommodate 15. The second level is a bit more colorful and cozy and includes a private dining room, accommodating up to 30. There is also patio seating in the summer. 
Dean Gold, the owner of Dino, has a pretty good website that he keeps up-to-date with specials and restaurant reviews. The menu changes often, so it's a good idea to check their website to view the latest selection. 
My wife and I have been to Varano's a few times and absolutely loved it! We have always left feeling more than satisfied, both by the food and the service! The menu has a wide variety of appealing entree selections. One of our particular favorite appetizer's is the Winter Bruschetta...it is amazing! Fantastic restaurant, great food, great memories!
Following up openings in Oxford and Bath, the third location of Jamies Italian is bright and cheerful, from the colourful decor right down to the chirpy staff.

The Venue
Like its predecessors, this Jamies Italian is located in a university town, in this case Kingston-upon-Thames. The venue is ideally situated on a corner of the high street, right near the shopping district and across from the Rose Theatre, ensuring a steady stream of families, university students and passers-by. From the outside it’s a bit subdued, with brown paint and beige awnings, and the dark windows only let through hints of all the colour inside.

There are about three different areas to the restaurant, with a casual bar area towards the front that snakes through past the open kitchen to a narrow hallway by the staircase before emptying out in a much larger room which contains most of the tables. From the orange metal chairs to the green and purple graffiti scrawled across the walls, there’s a constant, full-on assault on your eyesight – but instead of being headache-inducing, it merely adds to the whole experience. A pasta maker here, a giant disco ball there… every time you look around, you see something different.

The Atmosphere
There’s a no-booking policy at Jamies Italian (unless you’re in a group of eight or more) and celebrity chefs are not exactly a dime a dozen in Kingston you can expect queues to see what all the fuss is about. The atmosphere is, to sum it up in one word, friendly. The diners seem happy, relieved to be able to set down their shopping bags and try the food – and after they do they seem more than content. The venue is incredibly adept at dealing with children: high chairs, crayons and pages to colour are delivered before you even ask, and the kids’ menu is analysed through a red plastic ‘80s View-Master. Older children are smug and pleased, probably thinking that Mum and Dad have finally taken them somewhere cool.

Even though the staff are quite probably hoping that you shovel down your Italian fare as quickly as possible to alleviate the queue building up by the door, you’d be hard pressed to catch them at being anything but friendly and tirelessly patient. Need even more time to decide what to order? No problem. Your charming toddler thinks it’s hilarious to waddle in front of a server with a tray full of drinks? Smiles all around. From queues to shouty children to the cramped quarters of the bread and water station, they endure everything cheerfully and actually seem like they’re enjoying themselves no matter how busy it gets.

The Food
Jamie Oliver’s fingerprints are all over the menu, at times a little confusingly (My Grilled Chicken Caesar Salad, Jamie’s Italian Spaghetti Bolognaise – just who’s running the show here?) but in general the cheerful, upbeat tone is cute, not grating. Prices won’t raise any eyebrows thanks to the name behind the venue, but they’re still reasonable and the portions are large. There’s an entire section dedicated to starters and olives, and starters range from £2.50 to £6.50 for an antipasti plank, available in both meat and vegetarian versions. Arriving on a wooden board which is stacked on top of tinned tomatoes, both plates come with incredibly soft, gooey baby mozzarella, a sliver of pecorino cheese with sweet chilli jam, pickles, olives, chillies and a creamy, minty coleslaw-style salad. The meat plank includes four types of soft, wafer-thin cured meats (bresaola, salami, mortadella and prosciutto) whilst the vegetarian option comes with a shallow bowl full of roasted artichokes, aubergine and peppers.

Mains include a list of pasta, homemade, filled and baked. Prawn linguini (£5.75 for a starter, £9.50 for a main) arrives in a large, deep bowl, with strands of the thick, al dente pasta tangled with tomatoes and prawns in a spicy red garlic sauce. A handful of rocket leaves top the dish. The char grilled chop steak organic buffalo burger (£10.95) is a mouthful to say and more than a mouthful to eat when it’s presented on a rectangular wooden board. It’s an absolutely enormous portion, and even though the meat isn’t too thick, the seeded bun and piled up accompaniments of pickles, lettuce, chillies and cheese more than make up for it in size. The taste is quite distinct from a regular beef burger, more smoky and savoury than you might expect. A side of tomato and mozzarella salad (£4.25) is simple and fresh, with the same good quality mozzarella as on the antipasti plank and juicy tomato wedges, whereas the polenta chips (£2.50) are thick and crisp, sprinkled with rosemary and grated parmesan cheese.

Puddings are mostly traditionally Italian (tiramisu, pannacotta) or Italian with a twist (Italian Bakewell tart). The chocolate banana brownie (£4.65) is soft and crumbly, with a bit of chocolate and banana chunks in the centre. Ice cream (£3.75 for three scoops) has a rotating roster of flavours, including a creamy, intense dark chocolate, a sugary hazelnut and a bittersweet limoncello.
The Drink
The all-Italian wine list is short and to the point, with two types of organic wine, five whites, five red and two roses from £13.95 and £3.70 per glass. All are available by the 175ml glass and most by the carafe as well. Champagne (the only non-Italian intruder on the list) starts from £40 and £55, but – as Jamie says on the menu – who needs Champagne when you can have Prosecco from £27.90 a bottle? Other drinks include spirits, cocktails from £4.25, sodas, juices, and San Pelligrino Aranciata and Limonata (fizzy orange and lemon).
The Last Word Whilst there is no mistaking Jamies Italian for a local, family-run neighbourhood restaurant, it’s a fun, laid back place with good food, friendly staff and decent prices. Join the queue and see for yourself.
Frommer's Review
Garlic-lovers alert: This two-story restaurant a few blocks north of the Italian Market is the epitome of the "red gravy" Italian-style: unpretentious, comfortable, reasonable, and owned by the same family for decades. The baked lasagna, spaghetti with sausage, and chicken Sorrento have fans all over the city. The extensive menu is long on veal and chicken dishes. It's always busy, especially before and after sporting events.
Rovezzi's is an Italian restaurant in a big brick mill building. It in fact is in the exact location of a previous Italian restaurant - Tiano's Restaurant. Cynics might say that when Tiano's moved out, Rovezzi's moved in hoping to grab all of that existing audience without putting in the same amount of effort. I know many people who went to this location expecting to eat at Tiano's, and decided to stay when they saw Tiano's was no longer there.

I called in reservations for a birthday dinner with my boyfriend, requesting a window seat. That was always what I really liked when I went to Tiano's. We arrived and told them the name the reservation was under. They looked us up and went to seat us. Even though there were several window seats open, they sat us in a booth instead. I didn't object, but it struck me as odd. There were only 3 other tables filled at the time.

The room lighting is very dark now under the new management. The walls are dark red, with some dark green accents and dark black draperies. In fact it was so dark that my boyfriend couldn't read his menu. They brought over a flashlight - apparently this is a not uncommon complaint. While we decided, we were brought a free little appetizer - two small crunchy toast pieces with berry spread on top. They were quite tasty. We asked for a $50 Chianti, two appetizers and two main dishes.

Well, somehow the Chianti was no longer available. We went with another selection in the price range. I'll note that the wine prices seemed very high here. We're used to wine prices being jacked up, but they were completely outrageous, sometimes 3x or 4x the going price.

For appetizers I got calamari and Bob got mushroom ravioli. In both cases it was tasty - but very 'bland' in terms of flavors. It was a mush of taste sensations. Not only that, but both dishes were very chewy.

On to the main dish. I had the lamb with butternut squash grain blend; Bob had the veal parm. Again, both were tasty - but both were very bland. The veal parm was very mild, almost as if it'd been made with tomato paste. The lamb was on a base that was "starchy" in taste - you couldn't sense individual flavors at all.

I'll comment on the bread here. It is tasty and obviously fresh, served with a little decanter of oil. The decanter holds roast garlic, mushrooms and a ton of spice, but you're not able to pour those other ingredients out of the decanter. We had to fish a garlic bud out with a fork. It makes you wonder if they re-use those ingredients for multiple days, or if they really waste all of that for a single serving. It would have been nice if they'd served the oil in a container that let you take advantage of those ingredients.

For dessert, they brought out a tray with no prices. We always find this to be an intriguing way to push high priced items without letting you know about that. I went with the tiramisu which came in a large goblet - no ladyfingers, just layers of cheese and dark 'sauce'. It was OK, but again a bland blend of flavors.

The waitress was friendly, although not always very prompt with water or menus. We for example got our leftovers in boxes and sat for a while before we saw a dessert menu.

It's intriguing because before we went here, we considered Cafe Amore to be great food but overpriced. After seeing what Rovezzi's provided and charged, we are re-thinking Amore as being quite a good deal.
Very poor experience April 2007: I don't know how the other reviewers had such glowing experiences (maybe they're relatives), but as a New Yorker trying Patsy's for the first (and last) time-I found it hard to believe that they are still in business. The food was really awful-unless we ordered the wrong things. Perhaps if one sticks to pasta dishes, it'd be better. Stay away from the fish-unless you request a broiled one. It was basically stewed-no distinct flavors. Wow. Truthfully I wanted it to be great-I took my husband there for his birthday, but we have far better meals around NYC in our neighborhood Italian restaurants. The serviWhen we were booking for our recent stay in Edinburgh, for the marathon, we decided to book a meal for the night before the race rather than eating in the Travelodge where we were staying. Not really knowing Edinburgh very well or where to eat out in Edinburgh, I let my wife do the organising, with my one request being that it could be somewhere that I could fill myself up with pasta to fuel myself for the marathon.

She booked Guilianos Italian restaurant, where she had been to a couple of times before on trips to Edinburgh with her friends. We phoned to book this restaurant weeks before we were due to go to Edinburgh, as my wife had struggled on a previous occasion to get a booking when phoning a week or two before going.
One of the reasons that you need to book this restaurant so far in advance is that the location is directly across the street from the Edinburgh Playhouse, so there are a huge amount of people booking for pre-theatre meals. The restaurant has a huge number of tables and was about half full when we went in for our 6pm booking, but started really filling up shortly afterwards.

The service in the restaurant was first class during our meal and the staff, who were all Italian, were very attentive and pleasant. They were so much in control of their job that they even were creating time for themselves to catch some of the football that was showing on a tv screen in a corner at the back of the restaurant. I guess we were lucky that the world cup game that was on that night didn't include Italy or we would have had to wait a bit longer for our meal. From ordering our meal to receiving our third course only took about an hour, so the service is very fast.
The food was excellent and very reasonably priced. We both had some garlic bread with cheese for a starter, followed by a pasta dish for me and a pizza for my wife. I had to help out a bit with the pizza which, as well as the pasta tasted superb. As i didn't want to have a dessert that was too heavy, we both opted for ice-cream afterwards with the total bill for three courses each and a glass of wine for my wife coming to about £35, which I though was very reasonable.

I would definitely recommend Guilianos Italian restaurant and, as a pasta and Italian food lover, will be giving this restaurant another visit the next time that I am in Edinburgh.ce was adequate, front door greeting and bartender might want to actually try to be pleasant or pretend that they're glad you've arrived. I don't need fawning, just basic, "Hello-how are you this evening? Please have a seat a the bar until your table is ready". Not-"give me your coat and wait there"
The menu is written with a chumminess slightly more nauseating than actual Pedigree Chum: 'good old grilled steak', 'my favourite humble green salad', 'why not upgrade your olive oil?' It's like watching the process of aspiration from the other side; rightly or wrongly, Jamie Oliver seems to have decided that everyone wants to be him. The whole set-up, from its late-youth, exposed-steel-beams industrial interior to its 'Hey, you can appreciate the Tuscan without being, like, Tony Blair, man', is rooted in the idea that we don't just want to eat his food, we want to find a warm place in his psyche and dwell there.
Yet of course none of that matters if it tastes nice, and some of it does. A and I shared a meat antipasti platter (£6.50 a head), which consisted of mortadella (it's the ironist's choice, isn't it? Looks like a post-surgical dressing, tastes like the 1970s, and yet it's cool because it's Italian. Having said all that, I do quite like it), finocchiona (fennel salami), bresaola, prosciutto and two small balls of the best, most yielding and delicate mozzarella I've ever had outside Rome. Plus a bland root-vegetable salad (looked like it should have been pickled, but wasn't) and a pecorino with too much sweet-chilli sauce on it for me to tell you with confidence what it tasted like (though given the mozzarella it was probably delicious). This was a lot of fun, and fairly priced. The long, thin antipasti board is propped up on tins of tomatoes, the staff are informal and sweet, there's an atmosphere of holiday charm and disorder that has been ruthlessly systematised. I know I'm giving out some mixed messages: it's fun one minute and ruthless the next. There is plenty of delight in the ingredients and a fair amount of skill in the execution, which is what it's meant to be about. But I can't shake an aftertaste of cynicism, a sense that he's playing us all like a violin.
A's baked organic Shetland salmon (£13.50) had been incredibly slowly cooked, so that it ended up with an almost mousse-like texture, which I don't like but do recognise is a matter of taste. Its bed of vegetables, mainly fennel and small yellow tomatoes, was more objectively so-so; it looked watery, and A said, sadly, 'It's like something you might be given at a friend's house.' I had the 'lamb chops scorched fingers' (£13.85), which were nice and unpretentious, with a fresh but rather mainstream dressing (it called itself 'Italian mint sauce' - I think it just meant 'salsa verde with not much garlic, while the hoi polloi get used to the idea'). Fourteen quid was steep for three chops, I thought.
We shared the 'ultimate chocolate banana brownie' (£4.65), and it was so sweet I'm getting a sugar flashback now - like a hash brownie, only instead of a psychedelic experience I had a headache and my tongue stuck to the roof of my mouth. There's a reason people use nuts instead of bananas - you need something to cut through the chocolate, not unite with it and gang up on your glycaemic reading.
Ach, the place isn't that bad. It's certainly not boring, it's not penny-pinching (or at least not very), and some of the salads whizzing past looked gorgeous. I just worry about Jamie's self-belief. It's too much; it makes you want to go to McDonald's.
There are some cute touches in Jamie Oliver's new high-street Italian: a man wanders about with a great long bread-board of balsamic-sprinkled parmesan for the people waiting. Except we wouldn't need to be waiting, were it not for the totally uncute touch that you can't book. Oxford trenchermen queue round the block, just to be allowed into the indoors queue, which itself doesn't promise you a table in under an hour. I'll tell you what about quaint university towns: they are never so swamped with nice restaurants that people refuse to be treated like this. Too many libraries and branches of Past Times.
Sitting in the trendy belt of Purvis Street since the first day of its operation, this semi-fine dining restaurant offers an enticing menu of Italian favourites with the freshest ingredients, paired off with some of the best Italian chefs in Singapore . Being around for not more than 4 years, this is one restaurant that is not short of accolades and acclaim. Having received notable awards from Singapore Tatler, Wine and Dine, Expat Magazine and Tables Magazine, you can be sure to expect great culinary moments dining in the accomplished Garibaldi Italian Restaurant & Bar.
The Vibe 
From the simple white façade of its exterior, it is difficult to get a hint of what goes on within. However, step inside to discover a dimly lit dining space that is kept intimate and elegant. With shiny cutlery and spotless wine glasses set over crisp white tablecloths, every individual table is illuminated with vanilla coloured light boxes that feature outlines of plants and flowers, creating an ambience that soothes and cajoles guests into winding down and partaking in an Italian feast guaranteed to satisfy. Far across the room, a fully stocked wine cellar that spans across its breadth will also prepare the guests for the wide range of over 500 different wines that the restaurant serves, to accompany their fine cuisine.
The Food 
This restaurant is partly owned and headed by a well-known personality in Singapore 's fine dining circle, the award-winning Chef de Cuisine Roberto Galetti who carefully handpicks his team of young Italian, European and local talents. Under his leadership, the kitchen of Garibaldi has consistently maintained its standards of offering pure Italian cuisine, and also quality seasonal picks to constantly keep things exciting and refreshing for its diners.
For an excellent start to the meal, do make a note to have a try of the Prosciutto di Parma ($24), a platter of finely sliced salted parma ham that is harmonized with sweet melon, buffalo mozzarella and asparagus. Light on the palate and exquisite in its blend of tastes, this certainly was a commendable dish to initiate us into our lunch. To further ease us into the meal proper, the specialty Capesante Al Tallegio ($26) is a must-try. Take time to slowly appreciate the nicely textured grilled king scallops resting over a bed of sautéed porcini mushrooms that are divinely infused with creamy truffled Taleggio Cheese.
Continue in your stride by having a go at the exquisite Tajarin ($58) pasta that is only served during the months of October to December this year. Seasoned with butter and the exquisite white truffle, the handmade egg Tagliolini pasta is simply outstanding, with the fragrant aromas of white truffle subtly lingering in the mouth moments after savouring it, leaving a pleasant aftertaste. Another dish that deserves special mention will be the Beef Tenderloin with Truffle Potatoes and Porcini Mushrooms ($48). The chefs had skillfully cooked the meat till it was perfectly tender and succulent, leaving the insides rosy pink and juicy, ideal for anyone's taste senses.
Before concluding your meal at Garibaldi, it is recommended to order their creatively crafted desserts that are freshly made daily. Noteworthy selections include the unique Earl Grey Parfait with Apricot & Lemon Supreme Jam ($18) as well as everyone's favourite Molten Lava Chocolate Cake with Nutmeg Gelato and Raspberry Coulis ($15).
The SD Food Advisor's take on Garibaldi Italian Restaurant & Bar 
Admittedly, the prices for this restaurant are a bit steeper than most Italian establishments in Singapore . However, having sampled a meal here, I have come to realize that the quality that one can get in this restaurant does justify its high prices. The culinary experience that you can enjoy here may leave you with a hole in your pocket, but a smile on your face when you leave its premises. Chef Galetti certainly deserves every bit of his recognition, and should be applauded on the fine dining standards he has initiated, and maintained in this meritorious Italian restaurant that has won for itself not only awards, but loyal patrons alongside. 
Seattle is home to a number of Italian eateries. They range from neighborhood bistros to chic higher class dining restaurants . Each of these is built to supply a really extraordinary dining experience. Frankie's Pizza and Pasta can be described as neighborhood outlet. It is small and cozy but offers delightful pizza, calzones, and pasta. Found in Redmond Way, they cater for lovers of authentic Italian food. Their gourmet dishes have been rated as the nearest to granny's cooking. It is a family owned multinational who take pride in providing an individual touch to your dining experience. 206.770.0606 
The Assagio Ristorante is one of the more highly classified Italian restaurants . They incorporate intimate and comfortable dining atmosphere. Here, the ambiance is further highlighted by the provoking design adorning the walls. The menu is massive including seafood, chicken. They also have specials like the mushroom flavored pasta and lamb. To accompany your meal, they have an enviable array of Italian wine to select from. The cafe Lago is famous for its Naples- style pizza prepared in a convention Italian oven fueled with wood. The food served is authentic and are especially famous for homemade lasagnas. This ensures that their diners get the real Italian flavour. Their food is served in enormous portions, making sure you get value for money. They also specialize is raviolis and gnocchi. 
The Il Terrazzo Carmine in Seattle first greets you with classical guitar music as you walk in. The restaurant boats of fantastic service which compliment is great menu. They specialize in normal Italian fare like pastas but on top of that we also offer delicacies like lamb fresh fish and duck freshly prepared, Italian style and with the finest Italian ingredients. For those who may wish to luxuriate in Italian cuisine but with a little bit of entertainment, then the Pink Door is the place for you. Located in central Seattle, this is a funky and modern eatery with live entertainment. Your dining experience can further be heightened by eating on the rooftop deck with offers a magnificent view of Seattle as you dine. The Tulio Ristorante is famous for its above par service and real Italian food. They have an open kitchen, which gives diners with the added confidence of knowing that their food is prepared in a cleaner environment. You can chose to dine upstairs or down steps but either way, ensure you try the famous pepper crusted pork loin.Following a glowing review in Hardens I was expecting great things from L’Anima.  Sadly, we were let down by them losing our booking – while I appreciate it happens from time to time, they were somewhat at a loss with what to do with us in the intervening hour and this added to the annoyance.  At the end of the meal they also had the cheek to try and charge us for the drinks they had offered us on the house…so pretty bad start.
Nonetheless, the food was good and the ambiance of the place was nice.  The starter of wild mushrooms with truffle was prepared perfectly, the only gripe was the main course veal was underseasonsed (read NO seasoning).  Because we’d been pushed back an hour we didn’t get to try to desert which was a shame, perhaps we’ll return.
Nonetheless, it does show that a restaurant can ruin things immediately if they don’t deal with things properly – hopefully L’Anima will improve it’s customer service.STATEN ISLAND, NY -- On Richmond Road, one block west of New Dorp Lane, sits the recently opened Francesca’s Steak House & Italian Restaurant. Its menu of hearty Italian dishes and carnivorous grilled fare seemed perfectly suited to the damp grayness of late winter days. We settled in.  
The central dining room of tables topped with chocolate brown and white linens is encircled by column style archways that open into a welcoming bar area, a second dining room and a recessed dining cove for a few tables. 
Male servers wear black uniforms and are pleasant and attentive. They treat every diner like a longtime regular which necessitated our making a mental adjustment on our first visit. 
Dishes we sampled featured thoughtful presentations and offered portions to meet winter appetites without being coma-inducing amounts. 
Appetizers and salads were predominately seafood, no complaint here, and two really impressed. Ahi Tuna Tartar, sushi grade as advertised, flavored with capers and lemon and protected by grilled asparagus spears, was delicious. As was Crab Cake, with lobster cream sauce and surrounded by roasted potato and vegetables. 
Zuppa Di Mussels and Clams was a large bowl of fresh shellfish with an herbed raft of toast in a tasty tomatoey broth. Prosciutto-Wrapped Shrimp offered several large shrimp in a roasted red pepper and chickpea puree. There were bits of prosciutto in the presentation but the dish would benefit from a full wrap of the smoked meat around each crustacean. 
Our excursions into entrees were quite pleasurable. Honors went to Short Ribs, lean, tender and generous in size, braised in Barolo wine atop farro primavera “risotto,” dotted with diced winter veggies, this ancient Roman grain subbing for the traditional rice. Applause also went to Prosciutto Wrapped Tuna, the salty meat wrapped around each elongated disc of rare (as ordered) tuna, balancing the flavor of the buttery fish. Tuna accessories were appealing: Umbrian lentils and Sicilian caponata. 
Attention must be paid to a delightful Chicken Paillard Al Mattone. This classic dish, cooked “under a brick,” had much to recommend with a tangle of broccoli rabe, chunks of sausage and light pillows of potato gnocchi in a balsamic roasted garlic sauce. Our steak selection was the 22-ounce T-Bone cooked to temperature and deeply satisfying, offered with both cognac sauce and steak sauce. 
Among several special order sides, we recommend two: Cream of Spinach mixed with Crispy Bacon Bits and a light cheese flavor and Mashed Potato Cake Mixed with Baby Artichoke Hearts, the crispy crust delicious but the artichoke presence should be more pronounced. 
There’s always room for dessert. In a dead heat for first place were Chocolate Souffle, a moist orb of chocolate cake with a heart of creamy rich chocolate, as delicious as it sounds, and Flute Limoncello, citrus-sparked lemon gelato and Limoncello in a champagne flute, a cool-tart ending to any meal. All desserts are housemade except the souffle. 
Francesca’s opened its doors last October. The kitchen is reliably banging out solid flavorful food. We anticipate an interesting menu for the warmer months ahead. We will be sure to return to see what’s cooking.It's a good thing you can't get charged with restaurant addiction.
Mario's, the intimate dining room on Edgewood Drive, can be habit-forming. 
Swinging doors to a world of fine dining open at 5 p.m., and chances are good you can get a seat if you're there then. An hour or so later might be a different story.
Chef-owner Mario Scarpa has had a restaurant in Polk County since 1977; he opened in the tiny strip plaza in Lakeland in 1989.
Servers, dressed in classic black and white with long aprons, know their business and go about it with efficient smiles. Though the air at our table was cool, a warm welcome made up for it.
Don't make up your mind on what to order until you hear the specials. Honey-glazed grouper, herbal crusted trout, stuffed shells and Tuscan chicken sounded so good we had to change our minds -- a lot.
One of my pet peeves is specials without prices -- peeve, peeve, peeve.
Hot fluff in a crust disguised as bread kept us nibbling while we made our decisions.
A big portabello mushroom cap stuffed with ground sausage and flavors, covered with cheese then spotted brown under the broiler, sat amid a cool brown sauce. Lift the lid of cheese to reveal the secret -- spinach. The temperature of the sauce was a surprise, as if the plate had been prepared ahead, just waiting for the mushroom, but the contrast of temperatures worked to bring out the best of both ingredients. ($7.50)
Prosciutto and melon is a frequent choice. Mario offers prosciutto and cheese on fresh spinach for $9.50.
This is not your papa's appetizer. The flavors of the pile of paper thin slices of ham and wedges of cheese are bold and salty and exciting and contrasty, right down to the surprizingly mild black olives.
Take your time, share and enjoy.
Two can enjoy a whole baked brie for $6.50, piling slices on a crispy baguette and garnishing with some of the toasted almond slices.
A little of the brie and some prosciutto makes a super combination. If some bread falls into the butter sauce, well, waste not, want not.
A screw or two of fresh pepper would be nice as an accent.
Ever vigilant, our server was eager to supply us with more hot bread when ours got cool.
Meals don't include soup or salad.
As if 30 entrees -- veal, pasta, chicken and seafood -- are not enough, the specials make picking just a few more difficult.
What our server called "herbal crusted trout" was a fileted whole trout -- sans head -- coated with fine crumbs and subtle flavors cooked on the skin. Peel the flesh off the skin in small pieces to enjoy every morsel of amazing flavors and textures. ($16.50).
You know you had meat when you order Roasted Veal Amalfi ($17). A filet of veal had been roasted, sliced and topped with mushrooms and tomatoes. The meat had a little chew left in it, but welcome chew because of the flavor.
The menu has three choices made with thin slices of veal in sauce, but the Amalfi has more body and, because it's unusual, feels more special. I could have gone for a side order of these mushrooms on toast as an appetizer.
Three stuffed shells ($13.50) sat in a sea of tomato sauce under a covering of melted mozzarella. The cheese filling in the pasta had enough herbs to make it interesting without being overpowering.
The meatball and link of sausage in tomato sauce both tasted Italian, with visible bits of bread in the meatballs for lightness. I could have eaten yards of the lean sausage.
I'm a pushover for gnocchi, dumplings made of mashed potatoes and flour. A whole serving doesn't make a good dinner here or anywhere. A plate or bowlful is too heavy. Sharing the $12.50 dish with a couple of people makes it an ideal appetizer. You might just have a disagreement over who gets to sop up the sauce left in the bowl.
A special -- Tuscan chicken for $18 -- quickly became the star of the evening.
The chef had sealed spinach and cheese inside a boneless chicken breast before flouring it, then crumbing it. A dip in hot oil set the crust and a stay in the oven cooked the interior.
Sliced and fanned, the crowning touch went on top -- a sauce of reduced blackberry brandy with plump fresh berries, almost candy-like in an adult way. Superb.
Each entree had delicious, plump orzo and snow peas.
We tried and enjoyed three desserts, all different and special.
Florida Orange Creamsicle Cake ($7) had three layers of moist cake separated by sweet buttercream icing so thick it squished the layers, with white chocolate chips on the back. You could almost bask in the sunny orange flavor.
If our server mentioned the tiramisu was partly ice cream, my wife and I both missed it, so the temperature surprised us. The cold blunted the gutsy flavors. Letting it sit out a bit would have made the good dessert even better ($5).
My quest for the perfect cannoli faltered a while on Mario's version. Instead of ricotta and chocolate chips, the fresh shell had a white, light filling (not too sweet) with pistachios on the ends. A super change from chocolate chips ($5).
According to the latest health inspection by the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, on Feb. 1, no items of "critical concern" were found.
A few things the restaurant could do to improve are:
- Give prices with the specials.
- Offer fresh pepper with the brie.
- Offer alternative vegetables and starch.
A note to a fellow diner. Taste the chef's work before you bury it under a snowstorm of salt. The chef knows how the food should taste and if it needed that much salt he would have added it in the kitchen.
The restaurant rated 4 1/2 stars when reviewed in 2002 and the chef continues to do superb work.
Mario's earns the same 4 1/2 stars.

I've never felt so relaxed After being there the first time, now i go there 2-3 times a week. Especialy if your being served by George he's teriffic.I found the restaurant very cold as did other patrons around us. Complaining every time the door opened.Perhaps a screen in front of the door would help. We had good service but perhaps a little rushed. 3 people asked if wanted to order our meal and we had just sat down waiting for friends and were asked if we wanted to order our entree before they arrived!!!! Overall it was average and not somewhere I would rush to come to. Good food but on all three occasions that I visited the service was poor We all enjoyed our meals - simply delicious! The serves were incredibly generous so take your appetite when you go! Great night everyone enjoyed themselves. Although busy because of the season staff were very friendly and actually fun to talk to. Great night will go again.   (December, 2007)Everytime I've eaten at Victoria's it has been wonderful - never a bad meal - always excellent service. The food is great. I would recommend anyone visiting Rochester, try Victoria's restaurant downtown. You will not be disappointed!! What an unexpected place to have the best Italian food I've ever had! Loved everything about the place!Fantastic staff and great food! The price is not too bad, especially since you will be taking many leftovers home. A definite must and Rochester family owned restaurant to visit when in town. Victoria's is hands-down the best Italian food I've ever had, and I'm originally from Chicago. They're new location (Corner of 1st and Center St downtown) feels like you've just flown into Venice. Murals, arches, and Renaissance art fill the candlelit rooms. There are four rooms with different Italian themes. (My favorite is San Marcos Square). The wine list is also impressive, as is the wine bar.When you pay around twenty dollars for a meal, no matter how much food you get, one should not have to constantly be on the lookout for lemon seeds. I bit into FIVE during my meal and I was very displeased. In addition, there seems to be more parsley stem than leaf in the dishes which it’s used.The best Italian food I've EVER eaten. Beautiful new location at 7 1St Ave SW in downtown Rochester. Atmosphere very impressive. Includes hand-painted murals, Renaissance sculptures and artwork, exposed brick, a custom built wine bar, and outstanding food. Very friendly staff. I highly recommend the Pollo Portabella or Tortellini alla Panna. Family owned and operated.Went here for DIm Sum & Peking Duck the night after. Would definitely visit again next time I am in town. more a little pricy Good classy Cantonese seafood restaurant. One of the best in this neighbourhood.They are Rude and Nasty
I stopped in Lin's today to get an order to go. This was my first visit and while I was looking over the menu I changed my mind and decided that I was not in the mood for Chinese after all. I apologized to the manager for the inconvenience, not that there had been one, because he had not taken my order yet, at which he replied "it certainly is an inconvenience". It was 2:15 PM and there were four people in the restaurant. What happened to the days when people would say, well we hope you will give us a try next time? Oh by the way, if you are ordering the luncheon special "To Go" you will have to pay an extra $3.95 for the soup (for one). If you eat in you don't have to pay extra, it comes with the luncheon special. Make sure you read the small print on the menu. The management is not customer friendly. I would not recommend this place to anyone. Don't go to Lin's I totally agree with the poster that said Lin's staff were rude - I had to the exact same experience there. If you want really good asian food - go across the street to Asia Garden - the people there are so nice - it is a husband and wife team - he doing the cooking and they will fix whatever you like but the curried shrimp or curried chicken are "the bomb" Outstanding service/quality I respectfully beg to differ with the diner who ranked Lin's so poorly. I have been going to Lin's for over 5 years, and their service and quality of food is exceptionally outstanding. RUDE ans NASTY I can't beleive that they got the best of citysearch they were mean and rude form the time wse walked in they didnt want us there when we first walked through the door and the food was terrible our meet did even taste like chicken i beleive that it was rat, cat, or evn dog it was really tough in texture and it smelled we didn't even eat we had to go to another establishment. I will never tell anyone to go there. We was told that they were racist and now it is confirmed and the nerve of them because they are not even form this country!!!! EAT IN OR TAKE OUT, LIN'S IS ALWAYS GREAT! extremely not bad. not a rousing endorsement but it didn't suck. the chicken tikka masala held up to minimum standards. it did not blow me away. the rice was not good. raita (yogurt with cucumber) was not tasty at all.  good naan! i will try again and update. Last night I had my monthly dinner with my friends Katrina & Parker (the rest couldn't come), and we went to Ghazal Indian Cuisine in Oakland, California. As usual when I'm with the girls, we had great restaurant karma - not only did we find free parking very close to the restaurant, but we all enjoyed our meal. Ghazal is a relatively new restaurant in the Jack London area. It's front room is sort of generic, but its dining room is pretty nice - not in the least tacky. There is a wall with square recess shelves, decorated with nice ceramics. The room itself is too square and brightly lit for my taste - the light is too white. With a little more care it could have a very nice ambiance. We were there on a Wednesday evening, and unfortunately (for them) the restaurant was almost empty - there was only one other party. I think the major reason is that the Jack London. Sq. area is a major dud, a complete failure of a project. It's a nice place, but for some reason nobody seems to go there. If that was true during good economic times, it'll be even truer with our current recession-depression. In any case, Ghazal is a relatively nice place to go for dinner. It features a pretty much standard North Indian menu, thought there are more choices than at most similar restaurants. It's also pricier than most Indian restaurants. That said, I still ordered what I always order: chicken pakora ($7), lamb korma ($12), kabuli naan (here it's called kashmiri naan - $3) and two sweet lassis ($2.50 each). The chicken pakora was quite nice, the chicken was quite moist, though the breading wasn't very crispy. The portion was a good size. I also liked the lamb korma - the lamb was amazingly tender - but I thought the korma was lacking something. Perhaps some salt? The white rice that I ordered with it was yellow, but otherwise fine. Both dishes were pretty spicy, even though I'd ordered the lamb "mild". The naan had a good amount of filling, and it was yummy and soft. The lassis, meanwhile, were delicious - perhaps a tad too sweet, but very refreshing and just nice. Katrina and Parker shared several vegetarian dishes - I didn't try them, but they said they were very good. In all, we were all happy to have dined there. As I said, we have good restaurant karma. Tandoor's Indian chef clearly takes care in buying and preparing ingredients to make authentic dishes from chiefly the north, but also from southern India. The food and service are equally superb. A delicious specialty from Goa is the Portuguese-influenced pork vindaloo. This very hot dish is made with Indian spices, vinegar, and chilies. One of the best northern specialties is murgh malai kabob, chunks of chicken marinated in ginger-garlic paste, then mixed with cheese, cream, coriander, chili, cinnamon, and anisette, and cooked in a tandoori oven. Connected to the Xinzu Binguan (Sunjoy Inn), Tandoor, designed by an Indian architect, is airy and handsome; elegant wooden rafters give it flair, and soft Indian music enhances an already pleasing ambience. Traditional Indian dance performances run nightly from 7 to 8pm. We went to this restaurant specifically because they advertised at WorldGate Theaters that they provide a discount on the meals with a movie ticket from that day - one of our party was sure the advert said 50%. No one at the restaurant had any idea what we were talking about and seemed totally confused why we were trying to give them our tickets. So.. Don't go there for the discounts.
Other than that the food was pretty good except for the Chicken Vindaloo which tasted like Ragu. The Butter Chicken was great. Value rated low because of the scammy advertising.I usually dont write any reviews If I have a negative impression , But after yesterday's exprerience at Minerva Herndon, I have to write this review. It seems all the employees are new now , I got the worst food and the service was too bad. I am so sad to say this , because I woluld have had food there at least 100 times before. The chicken was rubbery , dosha was not hot at all . Well ..I dont want to say any thing more .. March 2009 - I am so happy that we have an East Indian Restaurant in Lethbridge! First of all, make sure to make reservations. The restaurant is not very big and as far as I have seen so far it's usually pretty busy. The service is pretty slow. When we went there the owner was the only person on the floor seating people and taking orders. Occasionally a bus boy came out to fill drinks, etc. Eventually another staff member showed up. We ordered some fried cheese as an appie and it was delicious. For the main dishes we ordered a lamb dish and a chicken dish that were just the right amount of spice. You have to order rice on the side which is an extra few dollars. All in all though the food is great and I love East Indian food so I will definatly be back.My husband and I visited this restaurant that recently opened up in Lethbridge. We had been told to make reservations because it is extremely busy and we were glad that we did. Although we dined early, the restaurant filled up quickly and people were having to wait for a table. The restaurant is a bit small and the tables are quite close together, but the food was worth it. We ordered the Special Dinner for two. It started with a soup appetizers that was very tasty. From there, we then had the different dishes along with rice and naan bread. There was so much food for the two of us and it was all so very good. The food had some spice to it and then we could add some additional spice to it if we choose to. The food was not too greasy and each dish had it’s own distinct flavour. The dinner also came with a dessert of our choice and I had the rice pudding. It too was very tasty. The service that night was a little bit slow, but being a new restaurant we could tell that they were trying their best to keep on top of everything. It was worth the wait and I am very glad that an Indian restaurant has opened up in Lethbridge! January 2009 - Lethbridge has been crying out for an East Indian for many years and thankfully for everyone, the Taj East Indian has arrived. It is situated in downtown Lethbridge in a building that used to house a bar and was a venue for live music. The location is slightly away from everything but being the only East Indian restaurant in town, I am sure that will not be an issue for them initially. Inside the restaurant, it has been nicely decorated to reflect the East Indian theme and there are quite a few tables for the space. There are a few tables towards the back of the restaurant which are on a raised level, probably was the stage when it was a music venue, and these seem to be the best as you get a good view of the restaurant plus there seems to be a bit more space. The restaurant was packed so make a reservation. The service was on the slow side as the owner was doing everything in the restaurant with no help. It did seem that his spouse was in the kitchen so they could do with a few servers to help them out. The food was excellent though and worth the wait. We started with their platter and then had the butter chicken, lamb rogan josh and vegetarian korma. The platter is worth a try giving you a sample of the dishes available. We also visited the restaurant in the midst of a cold snap and the restaurant was freezing inside so they could look at getting a better front door or turning up the heat. Apart from that and the slow service, the food more than made up for it and I will definitely give them a try again. Taiko really does have the best sushi in town. We have been going to Taiko for 3 years now and have loved it since the first visit. Toshi always pleases with his sushi, rolls, and new creations and he and Maggie will go out of their way to make you happy. You have to give them a try. They have daily specials, so whenever you want to go you can always get a good deal and try something new. My husband, friends and I LOVE this place. The owner does most of the rolling and he is very accommodating and skillful. I have food allergies and the staff always makes sure to take extra care for me. I will safely say that their sushi is fresher than RA or even Sting Rays. The presentation is creative and everyone is very friendly. We get ToGo orders all the time too. Plus, they have so many specials, it makes no sense to go anywhere else. If your craving fresh, authentic Japanese food Taiko is for you!!! Master sushi chef Toshi is very freindly & willing to suggest something on the menu or tailor make you a roll. The prices very reasonable & you will leave full. It's my favorite resturant in Arizona!!  I love Taiko, authentic Japanese food! There is no other place in the valley to get a great bowl of ramen! The sushi is fresh, tasty, and beautiful! A must visit! They also have coupons on their site This is one of the best Japanese restaurants ever! Their food is outstanding and of the highest quality. I'm Japanese myself and have actually had some pretty good Japanese food. In addition to the high quality sushi, what makes this restaurant especially great is the way you are taken care of. The owners, Toshi and Maggie, are amazing people who know my family's names when we walk in. They remember what we like to order and treat us like we're family. Toshi is a master creator of various unique sushi choices. He creates many of his own sauces and every one is an amazing taste sensation. I can't recommend this restaurant enough. Go there and you won't be disappointed! Little Yokohama is a great place to grab a bite to eat if you're looking to avoid tourist traps and overpriced meals in Times Square and the Theater District. The simple Japanese noodle shop offers generous servings of soup at prices anyone can afford. Often touted as the best sushi in New York City, Sushi Yasuda has a lot to live up to, but manages quite successfully. The fish is first-rate and there are few other places in the city that offer the variety of fish that Sushi Yasuda does. From the owners of Jeollado and Sandobe, West Side Sushi offers a similarly extensive selection of maki on 9th Avenue. It's a great place to grab some affordable sushi before the theater or at lunchtime. One of New York's most affordable high quality sushi restaurants, if you don't mind waiting at Tomoe Sushi (or showing up just before they open) you're sure to enjoy delicious sushi at a great price. If tasty, fresh sushi is what you crave, check out this Flatiron sushi restaurant. Exposed brick and paper lanterns contribute to a perfect atmosphere. What a night everything was perfection and the staff are japanese, the food is japanese i recommend this restaurant 100%. I thought i was in Japan again and you can buy food downstairs in the deli, and we will be returning. This restaurant is an excellent japanese eatery. The service is good, and the general feel of the place, but the food is the best thing by a mile. It is always fresh and very tasty. Have been about 4/5 times and each time the standards have been really high. Good value for what you get. Brilliant place - the food is fresh and prepared excellently. It may not be the cheapest of places but it is such a good experience and the quality of the food is exceptional you don't mind paying a bit extra. The toilets are a little strange - flourescent lights!! But the supermarket dowstairs offers a great range of products. If you love Japanese cuisine then New Samsi is the ideal place to visit in Manchester city centre. With some unbeatable daytime offers, it's the perfect place for a healthy lunchtime meal. With the Palace Theatre and Cornehouse cinema just along the road and, this being one of the closest restaurants near the Apollo Theatre, the pre-show offers are well worth checking out. There's a great choice of Japanese banquets available in the evening and the Saki wine list is impressive. The amazing Japanese supermarket in the basement is worth a visit alone and, like us, most diners tend to leave with a carrier bag full of ingredients after their meal.I came specifically for sushi, on a quiet Saturday lunchtime. The £15 platter featured 19 pieces, including squid, octopus, salmon and tuna. The rice on the nigiri could have done with being a touch stickier, but was well flavoured. More importantly, the fish on top was spankingly fresh. I was offered a second platter, all included in the price, but I was quite full by then First thing to say is this place is amazing value for money, the size of the food is not for the faint hearted! Just under £10 for a Miso Soup, 4 random sushi pieces, then a Bento box with steak, deep fried veg and other delights. Portions that would satisfy anyone's hunger at a price for everone's budget. Also it's worth a venture downstairs for the authentic Japanese supermarket. I will be visiting, again and again I'm sure I love eating at the Samsi, OK some might argue it isn't as authentic as it might be... but then what would I know, all I do know is that the food is excellent, fresh, appetising and the quantities could overface the hungriest diner. The service is polite and courteous, the choice wide and tempting, and all seems to be well prepared and fairly reasonably priced for city centre dining. I have a sushi fixation hence my regular attendance, (go at lunchtimes for the best bargain sushi meal ever...£15 for 'all you can eat') and their selection always has something new that I have never tried which is always welcome. My partner had the Beef Sukiyaki, after sharing a Sushi Platter and a Sashimi Platter and although the 'first course' was substantial, the Sukiyaki was tasty enough for him to manage finishing it! I had a lighter choice of the Chicken Yakitori and it came with rice and a lovely salad, which was very welcome and not too overfacing. I would, and have, recommended this restaurant to anyone who has a taste for sushi and Japanese food in general and I know several friends have been impressed, so much so that one had a birthday celebration meal with 8 friends and was amazed at the service, quality and size of the portions (Samurai Banquet). My only small niggle is that the tables are rather small if you have a lot of plates and bowls, along with glasses, it can feel a little cramped, but that is only because the range and selection is so tempting! There's a great 'supermarket' downstairs where you can buy items to make your own food too. Excellent. PS For the hygiene conscious the toilets are lit with black lights so you see just how clean they are  In any situation, regardless of how good, unique & innovative the food is, it's hard to bypass poor service. My visit to lime, on a quiet rainy wed evening - nice rolls, funky chicken teriyaki served with wraps, we really wanted to like this place.. But after being bypassed by 3 different service staff, & then having to ask the sushi bar chef for a water refill sums it up..  There is a reason that Lime was named in the Vancouver Restaurant Awards as one of the best Sushi places that is because the food is the best, all the food is well presented and the place is modern and hip, I went there on a Fri night and was ushered up the back and it did get loud as the front is a pub and they just seemed to add a sushi bar at the back the service was average and bordered on unfriendly but the food makes up for the problems they have elsewhere.  I go to Lime about twice a month now, it's my "go to" sushi place in Vancouver. It's not cheap - in fact, its one of the most expensive sushi places I go to - but definitely worth it. My typical fare with guests are the following choices - spicy tuna roll (about $8) - snow crab roll (about $8 or $9)
- assorted sashimi ($28 for 12 pieces, including a seasonal fish) - a few of the more exotic (as in rare fish, not fancy) rolls (typically $10-$16)The sushi masters are true artists, presenting the plates in very engaging ways. Their cuts of fish are some of the best I've seen in this city, and they are not shy about tossing any cut or portion of the fish that they deem below their standards (which most sushi places would think are fine). My only concern is the most recent visit - from what I understand, their manager recently left, and he doubled as the main bartender - and it showed on my last visit - we had two servers each asking us for drink and food orders (not communicating), and when I ordered a whisky sour, I got a margarita, and had to do a bit of convincing with the server that yes, light green with salt rim is a marg, and not a whisky sour. But I'm sure this is just something short term. I was worried about the place for a while - superior sushi, high prices, slick interior means a tough run on Commercial Drive, and many times we dined there, there seemed to be very few diners, but recently, it's been more full. Keep the amazing sushi coming, tighten up the bar, and the place will continue to win fans.  A French friend recommended Gallopin after I told her I was looking to sample excellent, yet reasonably-priced, brasserie-style French cuisine. It was a tall order. And I certainly wasn’t expecting any frills.After being shown to our table by our gently ironic, but very friendly, server, we started our meal with kirs : a classic aperitif (before-dinner drink) made with white wine and black currant syrup. Being a seafood lover, I chose the salmon terrine (close to a pâté) with Mimosa eggs as my first course. The salmon is delicately seasoned and melts on the palate. The main course, red mullet with vegetable lasagna and Provencal pesto, was equally delicious. The mullet, which is close to red snapper, has a more buttery and tender texture, and was very fresh. The lasagna was tasty, though nothing exceptional.  My two companions, ardent carnivores, both reveled in the traditional foie gras and the lacquered pork filet mignon with sweet-potato gratin.
For dessert, I stuck to tradition and ordered bourbon vanilla crème brulée. I was not disappointed. The crème brulée lived up to its ideal form: half-firm, half oozing custard under a perfectly caramelized sugar crust that breaks like thin glass under the spoon. In short, Gallopin is worth reserving an evening for. So imagine my surprise when I walked into Gallopin from off of the resolutely grey Place de la Bourse (Stock Market Square), favorite haunt of investment bankers, and found myself transported to an enchanting Paris circa 1900. The Paris brasserie was first opened in 1876 and was renovated for the Universal Exposition of 1900. Gallopin features a large mahogany bar, brass chandeliers and rails, and, best of all, some of the most remarkable stained-glass murals I have laid eyes on. With their soft pink and yellow hues, the murals cast a warm, dreamy light over everything and even open onto a garden. Mirrors amplify the effect. This is atmospheric dining at its best.With the overwhelming options of fusion dishes in Jakarta, it is sometimes hard to get your tongues on the classics, and that includes French cuisines. However, one might feel relieved at the sight of Brasserie Restaurant in Kemang. Promoting classic exclusiveness and the dainty flavors that never goes out of style, the restaurant stands firm to the devotees of gastronomic pleasure. The Vibe Brasserie is an example of timeless class. From the exterior and interior, it is doubtlessly European, or, to be more exact, French. It is acceptable to say that one might feel like they are transported to the streets of Paris from the moment they set foot on Brasserie's premise. Romantic lighting and classic decor dominated by wood and mirrors provide the much sought-after blend of cozy and chic. The whole aura is enhanced also by authentic French paintings and prints. Although some of the furniture reveals that this restaurant has quite a long history, the good lighting hides this. The restaurant features smoking and non-smoking sections, and the latter is divided again into a slightly separated section which can be converted into a private dining room. In addition, a very cozy lounge with large sofas and large bookshelves is available for those who are waiting for appointments or who are just there to sip on first-class wines. Soft background music to accompany the diners is played non-stop, but on weekends, a solo pianist will serenade the guests with classic and jazz music on a grand piano. A bar with many choices of wine ranging from the 1980s is also available, along with choices of cigars. The Food It's French, and it's tres bien. An array of fine cuisine awaits you in the Brasserie and your taste buds will do the polka upon tasting them. Most of the main ingredients are imported and ensured to be the finest in quality. It is recommended to try the Warm Goat Cheese Salad which is simply heavenly. The premium cheese is roasted to perfection and cooked salamander-style to achieve the tempting brownish color, and then set upon slices of crispy French bread along with its dressings, which include capsicum, olives, roasted tomatoes and pine nuts. The olives are not too sharp in taste, giving the dish just the right amount of zing, and the pine nuts give it a delicate crunch. In addition, the presentation is gorgeous, making you consider that ruining this pretty dish would be a shame. The Brasserie endows much pride in its Escargots de Bourgogne which is authentically served along with the shells. The amazingly experienced chef, Mr Hilman, claims that the Brasserie merely uses white wine in the process. This is contrary to most restaurants that slosh escargots with heavy liquor in order to get rid of its distinctive smell. In true Brasserie style, these rare mollusks are sautéed with clarified butter, given a splash of wine, flambéed and flavored with fragrant herbs. The result is a mild, exquisite flavor that can only be attained by a seemingly humble-yet-undeniably skillful choice of cooking. For the slightly more conservative, the Roasted Duck would be a fine choice. The duck meat is tender and rich in flavor. It is served with herbed Lyonaise Potatoes and green pepper sauce, giving the dish lovely alternating tastes. For the dessert, try the divine Chocolate Melt served with vanilla ice cream. For chocolate lovers, it would be the ultimate treat. It is also a perfect choice for those who aren't into over-sweetness in desserts. Slice a bit of the cake to reveal the melting chocolate and top it all off with a little scoop of ice cream to taste the bittersweet ending of a great meal. Most would agree that it is best to accompany French food with the proper wine, and the Brasserie's collection surely wouldn't disappoint you either. However, it is also advised to try some of the fresh concoctions from the bar like the Red Orange Squash, composed, amongst other things, of Blue Churacao Orange juice. Another fresh option is the Green Orange Squash, consisting of crème de menthe, orange juice and sprite. The SD Food Advisor's Take on Brasserie Restaurant An upscale restaurant worthy of the prices. The classic, Parisian setting makes it perfect for a romantic dinner or an elegant lunch time with friends. Good for small celebrations also. When ordering, it is advised that you go all the way and order the specialties. After all, you are already inside so why hold back? The restaurant is featured in this publication, but I cannot understand why. It is a very poor Thai restaurant. We had 3 dishes – a Lamb Curry, with a diluted runny sauce and tough pieces of meat - 4/10, some Duck Breast with a chilli based sauce, with the duck overcooked or reheated and terribly dry - 5/10 and the...  We all loved the meals here. The green chicken curry was the best I have had, and I have had quite a few in Melbourne. They were quick with all the courses. My son really enjoyed his huge lemon chicken, though it almost beat hin, so much food. Don't miss this place ! Had a great dinner here. Just watching out for all the flaming dishes here. They seem to love lighting plates and delivering them with huge flames. One of the waitresses dropped one the night we were there & it worried me that it could have fallen on someone.I'm normally dubious of the standard/cuts of meat used in some of these types of Asian restuarants but I was happily surprised when we stopped off here after a dip in the polynesian spa's. It doesn't look exceptional from the outside but inside the food was fabulous. We had chicken skewers to start and thai green chicken curry for main course and I have to say it was one of the best thai green's I've had. Best of all the bill was very reasonable.. Don't miss this place if you're in town for a few days. Our Saturday evening meal consisted of the mixed entree (i.e. satay; spring rolls etc), which was average. Mains included the speciality "egg bomb" as well as duck with tamarind and a beef curry. The quality of the mains was superior to the entree (which I put down to poor choice on my behalf). The ingredients were fresh, though the duck was a little dry. Service was extremely good and the atmosphere generally fine. A good little find for a quick meal and relatively cheap meal. The Mai Thai what a beautiful setting a warm welcome awaits you on arrival, but thats as good as it gets. Food is not authentic its either over spiced or sweetened to disquise mistakes. My visit was a distaster, half of the restaurant llights turned off, staff sitting on tables joking and larking around, not quiet the birthday celebration expected, a free glass of champange and cake is what they offer, would nt have wanted to stay that long.There are plently of good thai retaurants in cambridge but this is not one of them.I ordered Chef/Restaurants specials/signature dishes for starter/appetizer and main. The flavours were VERY strong - almost too piquanty and rich but nonetheless enjoyable. Service was quick and efficient. I thought the price was probably only a little high but given that I'd eaten at a so-called Cambridge foodie restaurant, Graffiti at Hotel Felix the night before where prices are very steep, Mai Thai's price seemed okay. The actual restaurant interior and location is not that great. Its location by Parker's Piece is probably very nice in the Summer or daytime, but on a dreary wet night, I got no value from its location. On going inside, I was a little diappointed as it looked like a diner type of place and whilst not unpleasant, it did nothing for me..Mai Thai was horrible. Its priciness (and it's definitely much pricier than other Thai restaurants in Cambridge!) is not a problem -- but the quality and taste of the food was poor. Thai food is famed for its many and strong flavours. I understand that Mai Thai might need to accommodate the British palate, but that doesn't mean that the food has to taste mediocre at best. But it did. The worst dish we ordered was the starter: shrimp rolls, which were whole shrimp in fried batter. They were just tasteless. The layer of batter was too thick for this to be a Thai
dish -- it was more like the thick batter for American fried sausage.The shrimp were slightly mouldy-tasting. The Tom Yum soup we had was even weaker in taste than the one I make (which is a horrible condemnation even for a UK based Thai restaurant). The curry we ordered (jungle curry) was a soup broth (literally) with pieces of vegetable and beef in it. The beef was tough and overdone. Even the Thai Jasmine rice was a bit overcooked. The desserts were the only thing I liked, but even these were not great I've been to quite a few restaurants in Cambridge. Some are better than others, but Mai Thai is the first restaurant that I would say serves crappy food. Their food is not even worth half of their price. A few final points: the service was good, though I saw how a couple next to us were asked to leave because they had people waiting. The girl gets a stalk of flowers at the end, which is a nice gesture. But if you want this to be the setting of a quiet dinner, don't even think about it: it gets noisy as hell. I literally had to shout to talk (this was a Saturday evening).We visited Mai Thai recently following a recommendation from a friend and were very impressed. The food was absolutely delicious (particularly the coconut rice - amazing). The staff were extremely attentive and the view was lovely. Unfortunately we don't live in Cambridge but if we did we would be regulars!Just got back from EE-Sane. Never ate there before but am hooked. If you like Thai food, this place rocks. No bells and whistles, just great food, no, outstanding food. Be cautious with the heat though had a 5 and a 6 and they are flaming hot. If you like Tai food, don't pass this place up." - Tom Awful, Awful, Awful food. Chicken panang was inedible, so spicy my insides Hurt-I asked for mild to medium-just a little kick. No sauce at all on the pad siew and it was also too spicy to eat. Unbelievable. The manager told me to bring it back (this was take out and I live on the south side). So, since I did not get a refund for a dinner I could not eat, here is my review. There were also no people in there on a Saturday....that should have said it all. EE Sane, the best Thai food I've ever had! The food actually inspired me to grow my own Thai basil but my cooking attempts are no match for the culinary delight at EE Sane's. The service is never good (if you want good service, do the take-out!). If it's good FOOD you're looking for, your search is over. You just have to try it! I will agree that the service is not the best, but the reason the place was packed was because the food is great and the price is right. It's always busy there, and it is one of the best, if not the best, Thai restaurants in Milwaukee. I rated the service very poor, dissatisfying poor...we went in, asked to be seated, he said it would take about 20 minutes, so we seated ourselves by the front entrance, helping ourlselves with the table, we had a party of 9 including children and adults. The guys from the back had to come out to help with drinks and menus. After seating there for about 10 minutes, no one came to take our orders. Their were people calling for take out and people coming in ordering and waiting for their orders. 20 minutes past, we decided to get up and walked out, we said we're just gonna leave, the host said ok, that was that and mind his business...that was the last time we're ever going there... Delicious food. Terrible service. We always order take-out. It's typically ready when they say...though we have to wait until someone can check us out. Love the fact that you can choose your level of spiciness. I have been eating at this restaurant since 1999 and it is currently 2008 (almost 2009). This is one of the best and most authentic Thai/Lao restaurants. The food has a great mixture of spices and chilis. The ingredients are always fresh tasting. The service does lack a little but what do you expect for the prices that you pay especially during lunch time. I serious would pay double or triple the prices for the food. Oh, I forgot to say that I am Thai so please take my review seriously! Just ate there (Cashew Chicken) and both the food and the service was very good. I will be going back. The food tasted fresher than I've had at other places. The service was fast. The restaurant was not the best decorated, but it was clean!!! I am ordering more as I type!!!The food is amazing and the portions are huge, but the service is aawwffll. Sorry, Shauna, but poor spelling doesn't discount Daniel's review. He's right and almost everyone else agrees with him.This is the best Thai Food I've found in Milwaukee, and it's reasonably priced. We get take out a lot so we don't have to put up with the service, which is always less then friendly but luckily they have the most delicious curry squash to make us want to come back. And I have seen people get turned away at 8:30, so come early if you want to be seated! I think this is the best Thai food in the midwest and seeing as Daniel can't even spell the word awful, his review should not even count. I've been here three times. The food is good but the service is AWEFUL. The last time I went (which is the last time I'll ever go)the host refused to seat us at 840pm because they closed at 9pm. When I told him the hours are listed as "open until 10 online" he essentially said I was lying. There is too much good Thai food in Milwaukee to put with this guy's attitude. Try The King and I or many others.  Best Thai food around. Service is lacking. Typically one server at lunch... he seems to be put out by having to take your order. We thought he didn't like us... but I think it's life he has an issue with. If they had a better location and waitstaff they would be a 5 star restaurant!Food is very good here now, wasn't a few years ago. They have improved. A few vegetarian dishes on the menu. The curry dish I ordered hot and spicy wasn't too, but still flavorful. I would recommend this place. Don't expect beautiful atmosphere though. Just enjoy the food.  Although the place is not extremely fancy and the service is a bit slow, the food is amazingly delicious. My boyfriend is Thai and can cook quite a feast, he also enjoys eating at EE-Sane. Best Thai food I have ever tasted!! The most delicious Thai food in Milwaukee, if not the Midwest. Everything on the menu is flavorful and prepared with wonderfully fresh ingredients. My regular favorites include the pad Thai, tom yum gai, chicken satay, the wide variety of curries, spring rolls, volcano shrimp and chicken. One can specify heat for most dishes; the index is 1 to 10. I have found that 5 is as hot as any normal human needs to go; 6 through 10 is for serious chili heads. The ambience of the restaurant is charmingly dingy. The owners of the restaurant have clearly placed their emphasis on the food, which makes this restaurant all the better. A quiet snobbish restaurant tucked in the corner of Galle Face Greens just opposite the Indian Embassy. I had a few rounds of Cutty Sark Irish Whiskey (not Whisky) and a a vegetable main course. I really like the privacy of the cabins but its a bit too dark for a restaurant of this stature. dark, dingy and disappointingly overpriced for its poor quality meat dishes Been wanting to visit Bavarian Beerhouse for some time. I was really expecting something more. Being from Chicago and having some great German neighbourhoods sand German restaurants, I'm aware of what is good and what is bad. And....THIS WAS BAD. I was not impressed with the Bavarian Beerhouse at all. The beer selection was ok, nothing great. For the food, blah.... Oh, don't even get me started with the atmosphere. Wait! There wasn't one. I've been to Germany many times and this doesn't remind of anything I've seen before. Oh wait, yes it does, Uncle Thorsten's basement with his own beer pump. Okay, just so we're clear I am writing a review for the new location they have in Flushing. I was thrilled to find we here in Flushing had a mexican restaurant. Being that they offer take out service only I called to place my order on a friday around 6 pm, so I wouldn't have to wait. I tried calling for 15 minutes no answer so I called serveral more times over 15 minutes sometimes the phone would answer but nobody said a word. Giving them the benefit of the doubt that their phone was out of orde My husband and I were told by a friend that Pappy's was no longer a German restaurant, and that it's nightly specials were delicious... what an understatement!! This was, hands down, the BEST meal we have ever had in Panama City, and maybe anywhere else.. We ordered both specials, a chicken dish and a grouper dish, before even looking at the menu. These weren't your overdone panama city specials either.. The chicken was served with a gorgonzola sauce, and the grouper with angel hair, olives, tomatoes, and fresh basil. There were no dried herbs in this joint! Our waitress was sweet and charming. Everything about the food was extraordinary. The presentation was gorgeous, the food was cooked to perfection, and everything on the plate seemed to fit beautifully together.. We shared a creme brulee for dessert, and each bite, we literally closed our eyes.. I highly recommend the new Pappy's, even though I'm tempted to keep it a secret so I won't have to start making dinner reservations a week in advance!! My husband and I went to Pappy's this week and had heard it was under new ownership. The menu sounded good with a variety of choices. My husband ordered the seafood platter and I ordered a shrimp dish. Our waitress was average, she seemed pre-occupied with her other tables. Our dishes were to sum it up--bland. We live in PC at and have eaten seafood at almost every restaurant here, and this was just not good seafood. we were shocked to, as to see on the menu that all the seafood was "fresh catch." Needless to say, I will not be back until they have a chance to improve a bit. Maybe after they open up the new deck in August will they realize quality service and great-tasting food are what counts most. (and atmosphere!)my wife and i heard about the changes and gave it a try-man what a great change for the neighborhood.the food we had was the best -it was a grouper dish -that i would put up against any i have ever eaten any where.they explained to me that they only served fresh fish from the local commercial fisherman it was never frozen.,the atmosphere was up beat and fun .super sevice. the place was very clean. i will go back and i recomend this place to anyone. During our visit to Panama City we saw an advertisement on the TV for Pappy's German Rest. We decided to go. When we arrived we were greeted by the cook (young man on the street) and was told he would cook us up some dinner. We went into this place, no music playing, just three people at the bar drinking and watching TV. The man that promised us dinner was in the back cooking our dinner. He placed something in the microwave and turned it on, continue to cook other items and went back to the microwave....stirred whatever was in there and then PLACED THE SPOON IN HIS MOUTH AND CLEANED IT OFF...PLACED THE SPOON ON THE COUNTER TURNED ON THE MICROWAVE AND WENT BACK TO COOKING...HE THEN CAME BACK AND DID IT AGAIN....We were out of there the first time we saw this, and couldn't believe he did it twice, in addition he was visable thru the pass thru window...so no telling what he was doing way in the back...we told our waitress, she seemed disgusted, paid for our drinks, which should have been taken care of by the owner and we left...
Nothing more to say other than ....I WOULD NEVER GO THERE AGAIN.I just want everyone to be informed that I Lee Head as the new owner of Pappy's took over the business after much cleaning and re-setting on June 1 2009. I serve only the best fresh seafoods from the local area and other fare from around world. If you give us a try you WILL BE BACK. All of my employees are far above the average as that is all I will hire to serve and handle your food. I work in the kitchen and around your tables to assure that you will be my next return patron. Why stand and wait for others frozen seafood when all your friends have already sat and ate fresh seafood from Pappy's. Come join us overlooking the Bay while you dine from around the world. Thank you so much for your trust in us. The owner is back and the quality of food and service are back to where they were when they first opened !! Great schnitzel, goulasch and other authentic German dishes made from scratch. If you think the Hessen Haus is good then you haven‘t had real German food until you‘ve been to the Old Hamburg !! Will definitely be back again !! Nice little Restaurant. What a shame it is so far away from Ames for a quick beer. Enjoyes my food and beer. Thank you Lord ! The old owner is back and cooking. Wait times are back to normal and the food quality improved greatly. I suppose a German Restaurant needs a German chef that knows what he is doing. Prices are very reasonable compared to most Restaurants. this place was very good and so wonderful... the cook came out after our meal and asked us how it was and talked with us for a few mins... the waiter was very friendly and fun... i love this place we will be coming back VERY VERY VERY soon THANK YOU OLD HAMBURG Go here with a large group and you'll be fine, but in a small party of less than 10, stay away! Five of us went to the Bavarian Beerhouse in December for my wife's birthday because we love German food. I knew that we should not expect a quiet meal, but I was not prepared for the atrocious service. The food was good enough, but I can wait to go to Germany to eat a good schnitzel and never plan to return to this place. Clearly, Bavarian Beerhouse caters to large groups of office workers and they did not seem interested in such a small group as ours. I phoned ahead and asked if I needed a reservation, and was told that they could accommodate a small group if we just showed up. When we did show up at around 7pm on a Tuesday, they told us they could not seat 5 because they were far too busy, but quickly found a long bench table for us among the suit-and-tie crowd and the waitress repeatedly told us how lucky we were.
After quickly taking our order, the waitress delivered our meals after about a 40-minute wait, but our starters and mains arrived at the same time. We could live with that, but my order was wrong. The waitress argued with me and would not accept responsibility for the mistake, even though I'd ordered by dish number and I had asked for my chips to be substituted with mash, and the meal she had delivered did not come with potatoes at all. When finally a manager agreed to replace my meal, the waitress tried to make me feel guilty for her mistake by snidely saying 'so you're going to make me pay for your meal?'. The waitress's attitude after that was cool at best, and we just could not be bothered to order anything else from her. At the end of the meal, she very obviously checked if we had left her a tip and gave a venomous thank you because we hadn't.
Be warned!  THE POLES are not well-known for their cooking. Neither, so far as I know, are they particularly celebrated for their sexy dancing. But the ones we met at Lowiczanka displayed one clear national trait: being unselfconscious in the face of failure - in this case, to cook, to dance and make the restaurant look like a place where anyone would want to eat. It was this that brought the evening alive. Certainly it wasn't the company of my friends. A week laterwe all admitted to having hated each other that night - or, at least, to having hated each other until the meal was over, the dancing girls had left, and the gold- flaked vodkas were brought on. The Polish Social and Cultural Association on King Street inHammersmith looks like the student union at a college for further education. It has a bar, a cafeteria, a room to exhibit ugly pieces of Polish art. And upstairs it has the restaurant. Persevere up the stairs, and try - and fail - not to think of your school days. If you're lucky (as we were) and you've arrived there on a 'theme night', you might first notice a couple of half-dressed South American girls leaning sulkily against the restaurant's double doors. Brush past them, if you will, and you will find yourself in what looks like an airport departure lounge. Think of the delicious vodkas and ask for a table.There were two reasons why the five of us landed up there: firstly because we'd heard it was very cheap; secondly because news had reached me that my cousin thought I was boring. We hadn't had much to talk about for several months, so I rang her up and suggested an evening learning how to lambada at the Polish Centre. In retrospect, I realise what an embarrassing, dreary way it was to attempt to prove a point. But she took the bait. Or she took pity. Either way, she and I (and three others) found ourselves sitting a few Saturday nights ago, in irritable silence, in a glass- walled airport lounge in Hammersmith. We were, I think, the only non-Polish people in the room. We were certainly the only ones under 30. Most of our fellow diners - when they were sitting down at least - looked remarkably respectable. We would look up from our gloomy examination of the menu to ask, for lack of fruitier subjects - the silence between us was sometimes unbearably awkward - what had happened to the wretched dancers. But there they still were, looking sick with boredom just below the EXIT sign. It seemed that the restaurant's sound system wasn't prepared for them. Any genuine attempts we made at conversation were interrupted by violent, high-pitched screams coming from the loudspeakers. To the food. It arrives within seconds of ordering. One member of the party pleaded extra poverty and settled for a pounds 2.70 sledz in smietanie (herring fillet with soured cream). My cousin - who was never boring - chose one of the restaurant's specialities; bigos, a 'traditional Polish hunter's stew made with sauerkraut, white cabbage, various meats and sausages'. She was curious about the 'various' but we couldn't identify them. Pity the poor Polish hunters. It wasn't good and she didn't finish it. She filled up on servings of ready-sliced bread with butter packs. I chose from the 'theme night' South American menu - something boring and perfectly edible to do with chicken and rice. My plate was piled high and it only cost a fiver. Another in the party bravely had two courses; both were far better than anything the rest of us had ordered. His pounds 1.80 Barszlz Zabielany z Dajkiem (beetroot soup served with a hard-boiled egg and a dollop of cream) was delicious, as were the Kietbasa Smazona z Cebula ( pounds 4.50) - grilled Polish sausage served with fried onion and potatoes. Or, that is to say, the sausage was good. The onion was fine. The mashed potato, which came in those ice-cream-scoop spherical lumps, was best left well alone (they brought back horrible memories of force-feeding at primary school. Take my advice: don't even smell them.) But anyway, the food wasn't the point. The point, as I say, was the price, the vodka - and, as it turned out, the extraordinary bottoms. It was at about this time, as we laid down our knives and forks with lots still left on our plates, that the speaker stopped squeaking and the dancers learnt how to smile. 'Oh- ho,' we said to each other (complacently) as two men and two women in decentish dancing clothes strutted towards the dance floor beside us. 'Isn't London a delightfully diverse and eccentric place?' But then the dancing continued and the women took off more and more clothes until finally their bottoms were dressed only in spangly G-strings. Very embarrassing. Where were we supposed to look? It was all very well being diverse - but spangly bottoms? During dinner? I think most of my party didn't really know how they were expected to react. Should we have been culturally aware and broadminded? Or should we have taken offence? Most of us got the giggles. But I felt sorry for the only man in our party. He was seated bang next to the dance floor and both women dancers singled him out, gyrating their hips towards his head. He was very polite about it, pretended not to be impressed, turned slightly pinkish and looked at the floor. The professional dancers finally left us alone and it was time for the diners to take to the floor. We relaxed. Two of us entered, and failed to be placed, in the lambada competition which followed. We ordered more flavoured vodkas and spent the rest of the evening sitting at our table and staring. That was the best bit - watching the old respectables and the fat young women in tightly fitting frocks, wiggling their hips in sexy unEnglish abandon. We got drunk. We started talking. We went home. And all that - a dance, a full belly, a spinning head - for the bargain basement price of pounds 11 each. I have been trying to persuade them all to go back with me ever since.Hey it is what is... but Dan they have a large enough clientele.. that they do not have to worry whether you show up again or not Good local home cooking by polish ladies... you come here for the food and it's great Been here several times The atmosphere rating denotes it being situated on Barton Street aside from that it reminds me of my Babcia's house so since it is aiming for down home Polish cooking it is right on the money as per atmosphere. If you go to this place with a group of 4 or more you can get the catered feast (19.99 a person) and I definitely recommend that. It included two all you can eat soups, coleslaw, pasta salad, regular salad, chicken cutlets, pork cutlets, roast beef, roast pork, chicken cordon bleu, cabbage rolls, amazing pierogies, cabbage rolls, coffee, and strudel for dessert (I thinking I am forgetting something too). Oh yeah and they gave us all the food 
In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.

She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:

    * 1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch
    * 2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs.
    * 3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon
    * 4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon
    * 5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun
    * 6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town)
    * 7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue
    * 8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon
    * 9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun
    * 10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun
    * 11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch

Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.
"Contact: Leo Porzio, Adria 2 Hotel, Via Montebello, 49, Florence 50123, Italy; phone: 011-39-55-212-086; fax: 011-39-55-215-029; e-mail: adria2@dada.it."

And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

He replies:

    "Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"

Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
"Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
"The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
"Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
"Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."

Firstly - Unfriendly service - waitress was very impatient, tearing off order notes in front of our eyes.

Secondly - food was overpriced, tasteless and very basic.

A meal deal (about £8) said: salads for starter and chili pasta for main. For salads it was literally 3 leaves of salad in plate with some olive oil... Pasta - not cooked enough and taste was horribly overkilled with garlic chili... Minestrone soup - few small pieces of vegetables floating in water.

As London visitors, I think, we were caught in one of those "tourist one-off visiting restaurants"...

We've never had such a bad restaurant experience before!

delicious food, good service, nice people, one of the few restaurants we visited twice.

very very nice nite out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money.

3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly.

Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

thoroughly recommend

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there.

I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening.

We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person.

In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they.

The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers.

I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better.

I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation.

First came here 5 years ago food fantastic.Came to london with my husband for the weekend booked a table at this resturant and was very disappointed. Menu choice poor lasagne small and dry.Pizza tasteless I suggest you change your chef. We will not be back.

I adore this place! I went to Uno last weekend with a small group of friends for a pre-Christmas catch up and what a brilliant time we had.

We were warmly greeted by a friendly and polite waitress as we came in and for a starter we shared a platter consisting of bread, foccacia and all sorts of tasty accompaniments which was just perfect. For dinner I went for wild boar stuffed ravioli which was superb. All of us enjoyed the food and two of my friends who had pizza were especially complimentary of their meals. Fresh fruit with sorbet was delicious and fresh dessert. I did have the tiniest bit of my friends tiramisu and it tasted like heaven...

This place was just right for our catch up and a great place to go for a dinner before we headed elsewhere to continue our evening. I was impressed by the wine list of this place as well as I was equally impressed with the helpful and professional staff.

We had very joyful time at this nice Italian and our dinner at Uno was definitely one of the highlights of our whole evening!

I had the most enjoyable dinner at UNo restaurant last night. It was very busy night but everything ran smoothly. I had burrata for starter and delicious fresh salmon pasta. My girlfriend had a special of the night WHITE TRUFFLES risotto! This dish was outstanding! You get lots of truffles for the price you pay. We shared a nice bottle Gavi di Gavi recommended by the person in charge. Thank you again for the recommendation.

What can I say. Last time I went to Uno it was with a theatre ticket deal. This time I was dragged along by friends of mine who insisted it was a great place. Well, how wrong was I the first time round. I suppose trying to go to the theatre and having dinner included in the price, was asking a little too much. This time, however, I went along as a real customer and was pleasantly surprised on the wide range and quality of the meal I was served. Sorry Uno for giving you such a rotten review last time round. Food great, Service great, Atmosphere great. What else can I say?

The food was ok, atmosphere cold, music too loud, ok for couples but not for families. Food was alright until we got the crab linguine which the pasta was loveley but i think they forgot about the crab, sent the dish back and when came back crab stick shavings were on top of the pasta, but still no flavour of crab, Dish was taken off the price but Manager;s attitude was not the best as asked us what we thought he should do as we where the only ones to complain about he dish. He said afterall crab is expensive so they would not put alot of crab in, my reply was i do not expect a whole crab but i do expect to taste crab, not just pasta.

Would not go back to this place to eat.

What an amazing dinner. Uno is no doubt the best Italian restaurant in Victoria. They put so much thought into their menu. I am a big fan of meat and they have a great choice there. I have already tried the duck and the osso bucco, both cooked to perfection. My partner is more into fish and she was extremely happy too. I can never resist the zucchini fritti on the side, they make them so delicious. We were both very satisfied with our dinner and looking forward to come back soon.

We hadn't been to Uno since it had changed management as rumour was that prices had gone up and portions had shrunk. Also, they had stopped serving pizzas, which was our preferred choice when going to Uno.

They have now started serving pizzas again so we went a couple of days ago and we were nicely surprised. We both had "calzoni" (a variation of pizza) and they were very good. The dessert (panna cotta) was also excellent. Staff were very friendly and the environment quite pleasant.

Pricewise it's not outreageously expensive but not on the cheap side either. For our two calzoni, one dessert, one beer and one small bottle of water the total bill was £37.


After reading the reviews on this and a few other London restaurant sites, I decided to take a chance and book Valentine’s day dinner at UNo this year. I wanted true Italian food (not commercial faux Italian) and a classy atmosphere without too daunting of a price tag. I was not disappointed.

The food was gorgeous (I had Cauliflower soup as a starter and a fantastic Bolognese for a main) and the wine (chosen by my fantastic waiter) was a perfect complement to the meal. The wait staff was prompt, knowledgeable and courteous; the restaurant is stylish, spacious, and very tastefully decorated; and best of all the menu is TRUE Italian.

After enjoying a thoroughly amazing Valentine’s day meal at UNo I can only imagine that the people who complained about portion sizes in earlier reviews must have felt that they couldn’t possibly get ‘enough’ of the food. I found the portion sizes between average and generous, and considering the quality of the food it was excellent value for money.

To be honest, I’ve already booked to go back this weekend. I want to share this find with a wider circle of friends!

Great place. Food was excellent, cooked to perfection. Everything tasted so fresh and looked really appetising on the plate. I give this place 10 out of 10 for the food and the service wasn't bad either.

went in september as part of a deal with lastminute.com (theatre and dinner)....not bad but nothing special..everyone commented that for the price (£7 for pasta with tomato sauce?!) it's truely nothing special. lovely service though very friendly people. however I must note that we were restricted to a set menu which may have been the rubbish one!

Having lived in the area for a year, only went there the other day despite being tempted on many an occassion.

A refreshing, simple interior, and occupied by friendly and efficient staff.

And the food? Very good. A simple menu with appetising dishes appeals to those who may not be keen on the faux Italian competitors that look to grab the one time visitor tourists (Sole Il Mio for e.g.).

Starters and Main were good in flavour and in portion size.

Some reviewers have complained about the portion sizes but don't worry unless you are really only satisfied by feeling completely stuffed...Enjoy

Having lived in Tottenham for nigh on 30 years and having passed this little corner of Bruce Grove restaurant several times, my curiosity was aroused even further when I saw television crew around the restaurant this year, obviously filming for some Italian programme or the another and resolved to go in and try out the cuisine. I had the opportunity last Friday when I took my sister visiting from Canada. It looks very pretty from the outside, with lots of lights and plants inviting you to come on in, but I was disappointed with the interior decor.. I saw lots of wires criss-crossing the ceiling and ill-placed candles on the window ledge which didnt quite go with the whole scene! I wasnt overly impressed with the food, ravioli and swordfish, which was a bit under-seasoned, though I guess using less salt in food is a good health tip to consider for those with dodgy tickers! Would I rush back in for seconds? No, it didnt leave an impression on me, but at least I know more about San Marco now.

Was there last Saturday with two friends and we were all very impressed. Good food and resaonably priced, the house red wine particulraly good value.

Great little local Italian restaurant.Recent revamp with the addition of new pizza oven. Very friendly and good value

This was probably the most disappointing restaurant I've been to in months. I had some sort of frozen beef burger covered in a sticky, sweet red wine sauce which had obviously been bought in (probably made by Tesco). My girlfreind had veal escalope which was woefully underseasoned and tough. Terrible, I'll never go back.

Having driven past this little Restaurant a hundres times, me and the Wife decided to stop and were glad we did.

Situated opposite the exit to Bruce Grove Station, San Marco is a cosy, attractive Italian Restaurant with a light, interesting interior and welcoming staff. The menu wasn't too big but gave a good selection of meat, fish and pasta dishes (no pizzas though) that were served surprisingly quickly and were very tasty.

In all we had two starters, main courses (with side orders), two deserts and a bottle of the house white for under £40 - astonishing value!

Were San Marco say in Stoke Newington or Crouch End, it would be booked up for weeks. Instead its in unfashionable Tottenham which is why I guess I drove past it for all those years! We'll certainly be back and hopefully enjoy it as much as we did on this occasion.

The best restaurant in the North side of London :) highly recommended

Went to this restaurant on Saturday, the food was mouth watering. Better still very good value for money. It is truely Tottenham's best kept secret.

I was worried when I saw a mediocre review of this place, that we had decided to try. Happily it turned out fine. Some "grumpy" had put in stuff about old and out of date and poor food. Quite the reverse. Friendly. Good ingredients done well. No flash (thank god!). Good wine, meat and pasta. The real test is salad ingredients. Totally fresh, tasty and refreshing. Filleto Romagna was superb but so were all meals...

I can't quite relate the reviews about San Marco to my dining experience here. I live very close, so I think it's a great shame that the food here is only average. The restaurant looks cosy but it realy needs a decent chef. As Tottenham is so lacking in choice I do come here every so often, but I would eat loads (as I love eating out) if the food improved.

My sister treated me to a meal at this restaurant on Saturday and I just have two words to say - "Mamma Mia"! As soon as we stepped inside it felt like you was a million miles away from Tottenham. My sister had been here before and raved so much about it that she wanted me to taste the experience for myself, I was not left disappointed.

For starters we had a lovely avocado/prawn cocktail which was dreamy. This was followed by veggie lasagne for me and meatballs for my sister. Both the meals were so tasy, you could taste the lovely seasoning in them. By this time we were both feeling pretty stuffed but couldn't resist ordering a dessert t share. This was an Italian homemade cake which absolutely dreamy. All in all this was definitely value for money, £37 for the two of us.

I cannout fault this restaurant at all. The staff were every so attentive and efficient, making sure you were okay and that the food was to your liking. I would recommend this place to all those who love their Italian food.

Went on a Saturday night. Looked okay from outside. But empty seats on inside and everyone seemed miserable - now I know why. The worst food I've had in a restaurant. Pasta and tomato sauce were tasteless. I only managed to eat half. The waiter knew nothing about the wines ... He said the house white was the only one he could recommend. Awful restaurant.

I went to this restaurant last night with two others. We booked for 6.15 because we needed to leave by 7.15. Service was friendly when we were seated but things went sadly very downhill from there.

Our orders did not arrive for 40 minutes and when we asked where they were, were told that 'meat' takes at least that long to prepare. (one of us had ordered duck breast). When I replied that they should have warned us of this as we were on a time constraint, the waitress looked affronted and continued to argue. The food eventually arrived and a waiter then asked us if we were enjoying it. We again complained about the waiting time. And again, he argued on the grounds that all 'meat' dishes take that long to prepare. I disagreed and he flounced off.

The food was very average when it did arrive - overcooked pizzza, bland lukewarm pasta and tasteless duck breast with mashed potato. We should have sent it back but didn't have time to wait for it to be reserved because it had taken such ages to be served in the first place and we had to go..

We didn't leave a tip and will never visit this restaurant again. I wouldn't recommend it to my worst enemy, with its poor food and bolshy inefficient staff.

Service was very bad, the manager herself didn't know what offers they have and we waited for ages to be served and to get the drinks and to order coffee and to get the bill and to pay the bill. the other waiters were not friendly at all either we were asking for help by raising the hand and one waiter saw us and didn't come to us and was not serving someone else either. at least the food was good but the rest was terrible maybe it would have been better if the chef would have served us because he did a better job than the rest of the staff.

Service was very bad, the manager herself didn't know what offers they have and we waited for ages to be served and to get the drinks and to order coffe and to get the bill and to pay the bill. the other waiters were not friendly at all either we were asking for help by raising the hand and one waiter saw us and didn't come to us and was not serving someone else either. at least the food was good but the rest was terrible maybe it would have been better if the shef would have served us because he did a better job than the rest of the staff.

Two of us had the midday special deal. Excellent deal with v. good pizzas. Service was very friendly and value for money excellent. Ambiance in the vaulted cellar most enjoyable.

First visit to Azzurro at Waterloo - very disappointing. After serving the starter our waitress did not come near us for 45 minutes and even then we had to attract her attention. My Risotto main course was fine, however my friend thought her portion for the Spaghetti dish was small. This place has the perfect location and it was busy with tourists, but there were more than enough staff to cover the tables - they just didn't seem to know what they were doing. We couldn't be bothered to wait for coffee and felt loathe to leave a tip. As indicated by someone on a previous review, I think we could have walked out without paying and no one would have noticed!

I frequently go to Azzurro, mostly Friday night. It's a cosy place to dine.

Absolutely loved it! Great location near the Waterloo station. We had dinner table booked, food was reasonably big and the pizza was good value for money.

There seems to be a trend in some restaurants these days whereby the waiting staff are so cool they don't carry a pen and paper with them and instead choose to commit your order to memory. And such is Azzurro, a supposedly rated Italian joint nestled in some funky converted arches next to Waterloo station. Predictably, they cocked up our order by bringing the wrong dishes, but you would have let them off if the food was decent. Sadly, in a city stuffed with great Italian restaurants, the food here was distinctly average.

Another thing you can generally rely on these days is attentive waiting staff continually asking you if everything is ok, trying to sell you more wine and ensuring the top of your creme brulee has the correct consistency of crack and cruch, stuff like that. Here, the staff seemed to be on another planet, wandering round a half empty dining room and forgetting to do basic things like bringing you menus and taking drinks orders. Maybe the place is just badly run, I don't know. I wanted to like it, but the effect was one of going to a non-league football match up north on a chily, wet Tuesday night when your best Italian striker is out "injured" with a cold.

We got so tired of waiting for the dessert menu we left and went to the boozer instead. We probably could have walked out without paying because I don't think anyone would have noticed. This place was more rubbish than a bin collection. And the pub was more fun!

People that have judged this restaurant positively do not know what food is, and especially Italian food.

I am Italian and i just feel demoralised that they can "pretend" to be an italian restaurant.

We had two pizzas and they were something to expect from the most basic supermarket chain. They were burnt and the taste was up and down all night.

The table was grease...as if it was wiped with a humid dirty cloth.

I would like to check the kitchen!!!!!! Absolutely a disgrace!!!! Walk away from this squallor!


    Mortified last night.  We took friends for a meal here but boy were we let down. We normally go during the week and have had no cause for complaint, in fact we raved about the place. But on Sat night the service was dreadful, (might I add too few staff and the manager did nothing to help, infact his service was even worse) It was a total embarassement for us and the management and though we will give it another go to prove they can do it, our friends will never be back and will not recommend it to anyone.. What a missed opportunity. And they got the bill wrong!!! 

    Had a good meal in here during the week.

    Penne al Forno was my choice of meal. Mince meat, pasta and cheese. Very good, similar to lasagna. There was plenty of mince meat which was good to see. Had bread to start too, which was also enjoyable. Few different variations of bread.

    Place was cosy and clean. Staff were dead on, maybe could have done with a bit more interaction, not much chat out of them. Although saying that I don’t like places that needlessly ask you if everything is ok with your meal when you have your mouth full, so am glad they didn’t do that :-)

    Two meals and a shared bread starter came to just under £25 I think. 


    Food was good last night - and they coped with a picky five year old with good humour and charm. And the shared dessert for two people is just the right size.

    The let down was the speed at which younger staff tried to clear our table. First any empty glasses were removed, killing off any chance of crunching the ice. Next they came back for empty plates while one other person was still eating. 


    Myself and my husband went to Uno’s on a Saturday evening in September.  The restaurant was full and thankfully we had booked a table.  The waitress came and took our order.  I’m always bemused as to why waiters and waitresses sometimes don’t write down your order - I’m more interested in getting a good meal as opposed to whether or not the waiting staff have a good memory.  The waitress who memorised our order would’ve been better off smiling and being pleasant instead of memorizing it with a sour face.  Onto the food.  I must say our starters were lovely.  I had garlic bread which was lovely and doughy and my husband had potato skins with a chilli dip.  Onto the mains and again the quality of the food was good.  I had pizza and hubby had lasagne.  Then it all went a wee bit downhill.  We ordered two cappuccinos and creme brulee for dessert.  The cappuccinos arrived quite quickly but at least 20 minutes later we were still waiting on our creme brulee.  We called the waitress over and advised her we had ordered a dessert 20 minutes ago which hadn’t yet arrived - we told her we wished to cancel the dessert and grab the bill.  She was rather unapologetic about the fact that we hadn’t got our dessert.  On paying for the bill at the bar, the man asked if everything was ok and we mentioned again that we never received our dessert.  Again we got a rather insincere “Sorry”. I’ve now eaten in Uno’s 3 times and the quality of the food has always been good.  However what I think this restaurant needs is to focus on its service.  They seemed to struggle with the volume of people even though there did seem to be enough staff. 


    I went here recently, on a rainy Monday evening with some family members… Pretty disappointing! Ordered the starter of breads and dips/tapenades which was quite horrible. 2 breads came out… Pathetic doughy-rolls, which had been microwaved and some manky melba toast. So was not a good start…

    Myself and another family member ordered the steak, which the waitress, although nice… Messed up, giving us Bernaise instead of Peppered Sauce. This then meant we waited for 10 minutes, while our food went cold, and when we were given the correct condiment, it was rushed and vile! And bordering on the inedible… The wine was also extremely poor. I expected better as we were the only people in the restaurant!

    Sigh. I should probably give it only one star, but I have eaten here before and its been great. 

    Poor service, small portions, warm food not hot, would not recommend.  Definately prefer pizzarellys 

    Pretty good tonight - good atmosphere, everyone polished off their main course.

    £2.95 might be a bit steep for three scoops of ice cream and a wafer ... But otherwise, seemed good value and tasty. 

    Tonight wasn’t their best night. Service was ok. But the pizza arrived warm, but not hot.  Beginning to think that Uno’s is a bit hit and miss. 

    Unos offers a completly different atmoshpere than pizzarelly, the pizza are differently made, unos being more traditionally italian, and pizzarellys more american(deep pan, both are fantastic and would recommend either, except unos is much more value for money,

    At unos the service was fantastic, the staff really friendly and atmoshere fantastic, i love it every time i go there… :D 

    I’ve been to Unos 3 times, both the food and service has always been good.  It’s a nice family friendly restaurant with a good atmosphere.  Service has always been excellent. 


    Went with family, poorly trained staff, slow service, cheap ingredients, would not go back ever!!! 

    Uno’s comes across as a fairly typical Italian restaurant. I’ve been here a few times with family, and I honestly would be reluctant to go back.

    The staff are friendly (but very busy!), but it doesn’t make up for poor main courses; burnt pizza bases and tasteless pasta are two standouts.

    Having said that, their desserts are gorgeous (chocolate fondant was loved by all); however, ultimately I’d still go to Pizzarelly’s. 


    Great meal, in this relatively new Restaurant. All the usual Italian classics.  Family of 4 - kids loved it too.  Staff friendly and courteous.  Easy parking. 

    Took some friends from London who were on their anual christmas visit.  We had a great time and the food was excellent.  How nice not to have to go to belfast for a good italian meal. 



    Just back from Sunday lunch in the carvery upstairs. Beef and turkey delicious. Pork a bit fatty, and the broccoli just a bit too on the crunchy side of undercooked.  But warm atmosphere, kind staff and easy to get a seat. 


    Early bird Pizza and Pasta for £5.95 is great value but I have found the food a bit hit or miss and the service can be quite slow. Not bad though 


    Booked a table for 8 o’clock. We arrived at 8 and were put into what could only be described as a holding pen. We where given a menu to peruse which we did several times. Almost half an hour later we where led to a table. 15 mins after that we were asked what we would like. The starter came out 10 mins later. So that is a total of 55mins from entering the place to starting to eat. When I reserve a table for 8 o’clock I expect to be taken to that table at 8 o’clock. My smoked salmon starter was bland to say the least and there was no dressing on the salad. The main courses were immense but unfortunately my meatballs were luke warm and had to be sent back. They also forgot about my cheesy garlic bread. I reminded them about it and was brought out plain garlic bread. By this stage I couldn’t be arsed saying anything. When my “fresh” meatballs came out they had been microwaved and were welded together.The other main “chicken pollo” was pretty tasteless. We ate some of the mains and left. Yet another reason not to go into Lisburn for a night out….. PS this place wouldn’t even lace Pizzarellys boots. 

    Great to find a restaurant in Lisbur so buzzing with atmosphere.  The food was really good had to wait a little while for main course but was informed by the waiter that chicken dishes cooked from fresh take at least 25 mins.  Well worth the wait it was delicious, so was the pizza and pasta had by different members of my party.  A great birthday. 


    Nice family friendly atmosphere in this recently opened restaurant in Lisburn. Big premises, variety of tables, over two floors. Crayons and a double sided sheet provided for little people to colour in ... And lots of cute smiles.

    Menu covers the kind of fare you’d expect in an Italian restaurant - a handful of starters including a pretty good antipasto platter, pizzas, pasta dishes (though no ravioli), chicken, some fish on tonight’s specials menu and a handful of desserts.

    The char-grilled goat’s cheese salad turned out to be a pretty small portion for a main course.

    But the pizza was good, and no complaints from those eating the sole or salmon.  And the crème brulee passed the test.

    Reasonably priced, and open for lunch as well as dinner. Well worth a visit if you’re in Lisburn.  It’ll certainly give the long-established Pizzarellys a run for its money further up the street. 

me and my husband have been going to the Italian way for over 7 years and always have a great meal. No other Italian restaurant can come close to the high standers you get at Italian way.Their calzonies are much better then what we had in Italy.The atmosphere is warm and welcoming and the staff are very friendly.The fact you can bring your own wine also makes your night a lot cheeper .

I have been dining at the Italian Way for 12 years and absolutley love it! The menu consists mainly of pasta dishes and pizza all of which are great and really good value for money. I holiday in Italy twice a year and have done so for 8 years the food at the Italian Way is authentic and the same as a pizzeria in Italy, which is more than can be said for other Italian restaurants which in my opinion have become to 'Britishized' and no more than theme restaurants. I am very surprised to see some negative comments on the Italain Way especially that the food is basic, Italian food is not elaborate like French food for example, it is rustic and basic-this is the charm! If you require traditional Italian food this is where to go.

The restaurant was busy and obviously popular with a nice atmosphere. The BYO wine was also a hit. The food was pleasant but basic, nothing that you couldnt easily do at home. Im not overly convinced they even made their own pasta, not that it was advertised as such, but a minimum for an 'authentic Italian' in my book.

Overall i coulnt reccomend The Italian Way over other more accomplished italians in Cardiff becasue of its lack of flair, but if you are after a basic italian with no washing up at a reasonable price then it may be worth a visit.

Can't disagree more. We love this family run restaurant for its charming staff and wonderful warm and cosy atmosphere. The food is absolutely great and all home made in an open kitchen - pizzas are sublime.. We use it with clients for work, our book club meets there once a month and it's the best venue for a night out with friends in the city. Its bring your own wine too so its a great value evening out as you can arrive armed andd deadly with champagne and wines which the staff happily open and keep chilled for you. How disappointing to read such a poor review - we eat in restaurants all over the world and while the Italian Way is not glamorous or trying to be fine dining, it is without a doubt, one of the most charming and traditional Itaian restaurants of its kind. As well as families, groups of friends and romatic couples, it also a huge and loyal following of people working in the capital's media and if you ask around, you'll be sure to hear very good things about the Italian Way. (While loos share a washbasin, they are separate cubicles for men and women) 

Simply great!

I've been recommended by a friend who works in cardiff market. He has never been there but he told me that one guy from casanova is in the market every day and everyone know him. So i thought i give it a go, at least food is fresh!

Wow....Italian food at its best. This restaurant really deserve the title of best italian restaurant in cardiff. Bruschetta with beetroot, goat cheese and white truffle oil to die for.

The smell of white truffle was amazing,I never experienced anything like that before!

My main was pasta with king prawns and squid with cherry tomatoes and chilli. It was really really good!

A nice glass of prosecco( £3.50 the same in Jamies Italian cost £6.50) with my starter and a very refreshing tuscan white and the bill was £27. I think this restaurant is special because they put big effort in "little" touches like basket of bread free of charge, different shapes of pastas( that means they don't buy from super-big suppliers like all the others); white truffle oil; different wine list ( no boring frascati or valpolicella or montepulciano d'abbruzzo)

Well....i tell you what: give it a go; you'll be surprised how good they are


Dear oh dear, what has happened to this restaurant? We went last night after a gap of a year and were really disappointed. Maybe it was a mistake to go during the Christmas party season or just the impact of the recession but the quality of food had really deteriorated.

Firstly, and rather strangely, even though this is an Italian resaurant one of the starters featured fois gras and one of the puddings was creme brulee. Anyway, the fois gras starter was a bad joke: a smear of tasteless FG, on half a mushroom, yes, half a mushroom and a bit of dried out panatone. My parter had the beetroot salad starter and he said it was out of a jar. The rest of the meal was ok (though the main course risotto seemed at least a third smaller than we had on our previous visit) but wasn't worth £25 by any stretch. A big dissapointment and we won't be going back.


Great restaurant. We tend to go there for lunch on a Saturday. Food is always fresh, the staff are really friendly. One of my favorite restaurants


Took my wife there for lunch few weeks ago and the food was outstanding. Fresh tomatoes and mozzarella to start topped with proper extravirgin olive oil (you can tell by the smell and the spicy finish) and leg of duck, so tender you won't believe, served with roast potatoes, peppers and aubergines! The service was great as well, no even need to ask for a basket of bread cause they brought it anyway(with no extra charge!!!!!!).

Sitting next to me was David Pickering....say no more?!(The equivalent of God in rugby). Wow thats why i love this place, the most important people in town sitting next to me eating the same food. Superb!!!

As that wasn't alredy enough,my wife nearly fainted when Micheal Sheen( and not just a cardiff football player all muscles and cash and no brain) came down from the upstairs floor. I mean Micheal Sheen you know.... "DAVID FROST" in Frost/Nixon film, nominated for an Oscar, or "Tony Blair" in The Queen. Well, if he left saying thank you for the food it was outstanding...I guess we were in the right place!!! What a day Thank you!


Is the second time I have been, food was great and staff friendly.

Would recommend has long as you have plenty of time and money to spend, dishes are expensive for what you get and it takes forever to get your food.


Went here on Saturday and this place must take the title of best Italian restaurant in Cardiff.

First of all the staff are really friendly and the service great. Had a fantastic starter of marinated sardines followed by one of the days specials, beetroot risotto, and then coffee pannacotta to finish with. To go with this we had a fantastic white wine. I can't remember what it was but it was £17 something. Will defo be going back.

Oh and the homemade Lemoncella was fantastic!


I have been to this restaurant several times and i think it's one of the best in cardiff, certainly the best italian, the food is top quality and the service is relaxed but attentive. I would definitely recommend it.

Abysmal. We went before a concert and although they were not busy our starter (bread and olives) took 25 minutes to arrive. Main course pizza was dry with little topping and ciabatta had limp salad and overcooked chips. Waiter seemed indifferent. Avoid!!

We recently went to a Bella Italia in London (off Oxford Circus near Palladium) - and had the last table. Place was packed, waitress was brill and food was even better. Why can't Cardiff do this? 

Not very good. Stopped off before Madonna concert. Side dish ciabatta olives pesto dip miniscule, pizzas hardly had any topping, had to wait ages for main courses and 2 tables who arrived before us were served first. 

Food was tasty (raviloi stuffed with slow roasted lamb and ricotta cheese in a tomato and basil sauce) but the portions were a bit stingy for the price. It's a bit tight not offering a bit of bread or some olives before the meal and it would have made it more of a eating out experience. We only had the main course which took 5mins to turn up and about the same to eat. So it felt a bit like the restaurant had a revolving door. The service was good/efficient but a little bit false like the staff had done a customer service course and were told to end every sentence with "you guys".


Visited Jamies Italian Cardiff during graduation week, sad to say I agree that the food was overpriced rubbish. No wonder the kids think his food is rubbish too.


I knew from the first sip of my house red, something was lacking in this place and the wine was certainly a true reflection of the poor quality of this establishment.

Service is slow, meals are nothing to write home about, so I won't write home about the piece of plastic in one of the meals, the meat sauce that had the audacity to name itself bolognese along with something that vaguely resembled carbonara.

I feel sorry for the kids who eat his school dinners if this restaurant is anything to go by.

I certainly will not be returning.


No thanks, not for me!

I'm vegetarian and all that prosciutto hanging BY THE BAR (near by glasses) cover up in little drops of melting fat is not a good thing to look at. My friend is not a vegetarian and was disgusted as well. Not sure how Health and Safety allowed it.

Sorry not for me at all


On reading the above comment (and several other on various sites) I decided I would also leave my two pence worth.

I have been to Jamies italian on numerous occasions and each one I has been without a doubt ten times more impressive than any other restaurant in cardiff. The food is absolutely outstanding (baked mushrooms and the lamb lollipops being my personal favourites) and the staff are absolutely fabulous. I, personally have never been in a restaurant where each and every one off the staff are smiley and actually look happy to be at work?! I thought it really added to the great informal, friendly athmosphere.

In the few time I have eaten at Jamies I have grilled the waitress's about the food, the origin and the freshness and how it is cooked and its clear that they are very highly trained and can answer nearly any question...im sure it natural for not everybody to know every little thing about each dish (re. above and the starter). The food is extremely reasonably priced considering it origins and th high quality. Yes, if you want to 'wander in for a cheaper relaxed meal' (again re. above) somewhere else, i.e. pizza express, wetherspoons its very true there are 101 other places but i dont believe anywhere else you would get the same high quality food at such good prices- bearng in mind these are real authentic family italian companies rather than cash and carry frozen food!

Anyway, as i have said I have repeatedly been back to Jamies and I would like to stick up for what is my favourite Cardiff restaurant, and as far as I can see, after 5 months of opening there is STILL a queue and having enquired to one of the host's many ar elike me and are regulars so yes (re. above) after the hype of Jamie

La Collina has long been a favourite on MK Reviews and a group of us paid the family run restaurant a visit on a Saturday evening. When you arrive, you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is a restaurant as it is hidden towards the back, situated in a large conservatory.
 
 

We sat on the comfortable sofas near the bar and chatted away while we made our selections from the extensive menu. After placing our orders the waiting staff returned shortly afterwards, took our glasses and carried them through to the restaurant for us.

I started with a relatively simple yet tasty dish - Mozzarella Impanata which is Mozzarella in breadcrumbs with a homemade sweet chilli dip. This was very tasty and not too heavy - a pleasant way to start.

All the other guests had opted for the Freshly Baked Ciabatta Bread & Marinated Olives, with an extra virgin olive oil & balsamic vinegar dip. The olives were incredibly popular!

My partner predictably ordered her favourite pasta dish for her main course – the Fresh Egg Tagliatelle con Rucola - with olives, sundried tomatoes, spring onions, & capers finished with olive oil, rocket, parmesan shavings & toasted pine nuts. This choice of pasta has everything! This is a colourful dish that has an abundance of flavours that combine brilliantly. Not only is this a healthy meal, it is incredibly light and amazingly fresh.

My choice was the Agnello Arrosto. Roast rack of lamb, served pink with Italian beans & pancetta stew on a rosemary potato rosti. For those who enjoy their meat dishes, this is a real treat. The lamb is perfectly cooked and sits proudly on a large, tasty and well seasoned rosti. The Italian beans and pancetta stew prove the perfect accompaniment. I loved the way the lamb was prepared and couldn’t get enough of the rosti. Delicious!

La Collina Little BrickhillOne of the guests opted for a fish dish – the Filletto di Salmone. Pan seared fillet of salmon served with crispy marinated vegetables, crushed new potatoes & a fresh herb dressing. This main course of fish will make you go “wow” when it is served to your table. A very pretty and well presented main course, the salmon is delicious with a dash of the herb dressing. The crushed new potatoes are to die for. You will immediately taste the freshness in every mouthful and whilst the powerful flavours of the salmon are allowed to shine through, the marinated vegetables and potatoes prove the perfect side-kick and they work together as one.

The popular Pizza Della Casa was our other guest’s choice. Tomato pizza topped with parma ham, rocket & parmesan shavings. This is an amazing looking pizza from La Collina that really gets the taste buds flowing. La Collina serve some of the best pizzas you can have, and the Della Casa is no exception. They have recently received a Gold Star Award for the quality and use of fresh and authentic Italian ingredients in their pizzas. They are reasonably priced too.

The restaurant has a cosy feel to it – the red vertical blinds give it a feeling of warmth. There is plenty of room between diners and we found the staff to be efficient but not intrusive.

When a group of you are dining there can be nothing worse than one of the guests be slightly disappointed with their dish – especially if you are so taken by your own choice. Here at La Collina though, we all sat there simply delighted with our choices and the quality of our food. This somewhat inevitably, means you enjoy the occasion all the more. We ordered some more wine and whilst some of us struggled to find room for dessert, I could not resist the choice of Amaretto & Cantucci Biscotti Cheese Cake. This is one of the most popular desserts from La Collina. It is incredibly light with a delightfully crispy biscuit base. It was so good in fact, that I was not in the mood to share!

There are very few independent Italian restaurants in the area so if you’re in the mood for pasta or pizza, or indeed an authentic Italian dish – then La Collina is right up there on the ‘must try’ list. We loved it!

It worries me sometimes when I mention Sapori to friends and they seem unsure where this wonderfully authentic Italian restaurant is situated. So before I share an amazing dining experience with you, it’s worth pointing out that Sapori is on your left just as you approach Woburn on the Leighton Road.

We have visited this restaurant a few times before, including on a Valentines night, and whilst this is certainly a great venue for intimate dining, it is also ideal for any occasion, whether it be for a birthday celebration or a business meeting where you might be keen to impress your clients.

We had booked our table a week earlier and every day my partner and I would say to each other - “Sapori on Saturday!” in eager anticipation of returning to this cute little venue. As we took our seats, it was reassuring to the see the waiting team led by the same young lady who had first served us almost two years ago when we visited Sapori for the first time. With ambient lighting, soft music in the background, and an incredibly enticing menu before us, we readied ourselves for what would hopefully prove the perfect dining experience.

We started with a glass of Prosecco before ordering a bottle of Vernaccia di San Gimignano D.O.C. (£25). Varieties of Vernaccia are rapidly becoming a favourite wine of ours. Renowned for being fresh and crisp, this particular wine was no exception. Easy drinking, it accompanied our meal perfectly. At Sapori you will almost certainly not struggle to find an abundance of quality wines on the menu. My partner started with the Gamberoni aglio timo e Pinot Grigio £8.50. Shelled king prawns sauteed with fresh thyme, and simmered in a Pinot Grigio sauce with a touch of garlic. This is a mouth-watering dish. Simply presented with five large juicy King Prawns circling a plate, this dish is made all the more exceptional because of the amazing sauce. The prawns were exquisite – incredibly succulent and perfectly seasoned.

I started with a ‘Special’ of Calamari, served with a garlic and butter sauce and a salad garnish. This was a classic dish that arrived with slices of lemon on the side. Calamari can sometimes be tough – but these had an incredibly light batter, were cooked just right and tasted sublime once drizzled with lemon.

Another special of Agnello (£16.95) caught my eye on the ‘Specials’ board. When we looked around the restaurant it appeared many people were doing the same because this main course of lamb cutlets on a bed of mash with a rosemary and garlic sauce was incredibly popular.  This looked wonderful on the plate, and tasted amazing. The sauces in Sapori are out of this world and they make very good dishes brilliant ones. The rosemary and garlic sauce was delicious, but in no way did it overpower the dish. The array of subtle flavours was Italian cuisine at its very best.

The lamb was served pink, and I enjoyed every mouthful. There was a lot of meat and because I enjoyed it so much, I paid little attention to the vegetables at first. But once I did turn my attention to some of the carrots, I was amazed at their freshness and how they were perfectly cooked – still full of flavour; they possessed a gorgeous texture that needs to be tasted to be believed. How do they do it I wondered? What was becoming very evident about the food at Sapori was how even the simplest of ingredients like carrots were cooked so very well.

My partner also opted for a ‘Special’ – the ‘Vitello’ - veal, with sautéed potatoes, with a garlic, rosemary and black pepper sauce. The veal was tender with a melt-in-the-mouth texture that was complimented by slices of San Daniele Ham (a superior version of Parma ham). Yet again, the sauce was amazing.

We moved quickly onto our choice of desserts and somehow, things just got better! My choice of Torta Alformaggio – toffee and vanilla cheesecake was definitely a sweet to die for!  This cheesecake was deep, with an amazingly light texture, drizzled with just the right amount of delicious toffee sauce. I wish I had not asked my partner to try some because despite loving her own dessert, she helped herself to a few more mouthfuls of my cheesecake than I expected her to – much to my displeasure!!

Her choice of Coppa Difrutta (a fruit cup in English) was a very pretty dish. Delicate and full of fresh strawberries and raspberries, it proved totally refreshing.

The staff at Sapori are incredibly on the ball when it comes to talking about the food they are serving. Not once did any question we ask receive a delayed response (you know what I mean – when the waiter replies, “Er, this is er, yes, er, actually, let me go and check with the Chef.”) Their knowledge of food, where it is sourced and how it is prepared was quite impressive.

In conclusion, it is somewhat hard to pick holes in the food. Every aspect of our dining experience was memorable for all the right reasons from start to finish and Sapori is a must try for anyone who adores authentic Italian cuisine.

The Zizzi brand has been around for ten years now, so it’s fair to say that they should know what they are doing. We decided to pay their restaurant situated in the Theatre District a visit.

Décor

The first thing we noticed when we walked through the door was the chefs! They were busy at work and could be seen tossing dough in the air in the open kitchen which has a huge pizza oven against the back wall. An open kitchen always adds that little extra to your dining experience. The restaurant walls are painted in a rustic cream colour, the tables chunky and wooden. There are many Italian vases and jars of ingredients around the room which is situated over two floors. Our table had chunky chairs on one side and a booth on the other side giving us extra comfort.

Service

Andre, Tony and Aja served our table throughout the evening. Zizzi believe in working as a team and look after their guests which they did here; making us feel relaxed and comfortable. When our order was being taken they acknowledged our comments and always repeated the order back to us making sure it was correct. We were also asked our names at the beginning of the evening. Tony in particular called us by name when delivering our food and taking our orders, this was a nice touch which is surely not easy to do in a busy restaurant?

Atmosphere

The staff certainly helped in creating a vibrant yet relaxing atmosphere with lots of laughter and conversation. Because of the obvious attention they give to all their diners, we will be returning to this particular Zizzi very soon.

Food

We started with the mixed olives (£2.35) which were coated with herbs and chilli. The Zizzi website describes them as emerald like, firm textured flesh with a nutty flavour. They are right! They were eaten within minutes of sitting on our table. Next!

My guest and I then shared the Arancini (£4.95) which is new on the menu. These are made from risotto, coated in breadcrumbs, mozzarella, grana padano cheese and some peas all rolled into 3 balls. I selected this starter as is looked and sounded gooey and full of flavour. I was pleased with my choice – this dish was both mouth watering and unique. The balls came with a tangy tomato sauce on the side that just needed some more chilli. I added this myself with the chilli oil that was on our table - job done.

Zizzi do not sell dough balls but they do sell dough sticks (£3.75). I believe the price is a little steep for what you get which is about 8 sticks flavoured with infused garlic and rosemary served with a garlic and basil dip. Some of the sticks were soft and some were hard. I could not really taste the promised flavours and to be honest these were all quite bland. The restaurant ran out of dip so we were given plain mayonnaise which did not help.

Mains

My guest then chose the Strozzapreti pesto rosso (£8.75). This is a sautéed, slightly spiced chicken whipped up with crème fraiche, red pesto and springs onions partnered with twirly pasta. My guest does not really like spring onions so these were removed. The dish was of a good size and well worth the money. The pasta was crispy on the out side and gooey in the middle. There was plenty of sauce and the dish was well seasoned. The Strozzapreti was also piping hot on this cold winter’s evening.

I was looking forward to trying the pizza because we had heard all about the Rustica variety that is unique to Zizzi. This pizza is unlike any other because it is far bigger, thinner and crispier. This gives the customer more room for more toppings. This particular pizza is an extra £1.95 but well worth the price. I chose the Sofia with ingredients that included a gorgeous spicy chicken, my favourite pepperoni, a flavoursome roasted sausage which was crisp on the edges, tomato and mozzarella. This was also topped with green chilli and fresh rosemary (£9.25). The pizza arrived on a wooden board that looked as though it had just been chopped off a tree. My guest and I were gobsmacked by the size of this dish......”Wow!” The pizza was so good and filling so tasty that we took half of it home in a pizza box which actually had little room left because the pizza was so big.

Desserts

Zizzi Milton KeynesAt this point we were incredibly full and our left over pizza and pasta were already on our table in a brown paper bag ready to take home. After a 15 minute break we ordered the panettone al forno (£5.35) and the torta cioccolata (£4.85).

The pannettones takes up to 15 minutes to bake so that gave us some much needed breathing space. This dish was invented in Milan and is a fluffy, hot bread pudding topped with cinnamon ice cream. This is incredibly filling so I struggled to finish it. I honestly did not notice that the menu stated the dessert was great for sharing. Oops! The hot bread worked extremely well with the chilled ice cream.

The torta cioccolata is thick, chocolaty, rich and comes with vanilla mascarpone. This is a dessert for dark chocolate lovers.

We had a great evening and food was reasonably priced. The large size of the portions stood out. We left feeling looked after and enjoyed the entire experience.

If you have seen adverts in the local press for The George Inn, there’s a good chance your first instinct will be that this is a “pub somewhere near Woburn.” If you pay a visit and eat in their restaurant, you’ll soon realise that this is no ordinary pub. Nor you will probably feel like you are in a pub at all once sat in their cosy restaurant which offers a taste of Italy. This is quite a unique dining experience, with the option to have a drink at the front of the house next to a pool table, or make your way to the back where you will find a delightful and inviting conservatory. Welcome to The George Inn, one of the few independent Italian restaurants in Milton Keynes.

My guest and I decided to have a drink in the bar area first and make our menu choices here rather than wait to be seated. This allowed us to have a relaxing drink and take our seats when our food was almost ready. All menus are freshly prepared at The George, so be willing to wait for your food to be cooked.

Food                                                                                                                                                                                              I started with the Oven baked field mushrooms, stilton, parma ham and toasted pinenuts (£4.95). This dish is full of flavour, incredibly fresh and all the ingredients combine to perfection to create an immensely tasty dish. The stilton has a real kick to it. My guest looked on enviously at this well presented starter but I was not in the mood for sharing.

There could not have been a greater contrast between this starter and that of my guest’s who plumped for the Scallops baked in shell, with lemon grass, chilli and smoked bacon (£6.95). This was not the sexiest dish in the world to look at and whilst the scallops had a lovely texture, more of everything was required to bring this starter to life.

For mains I opted for Porcini Ravioli (V) with garlic mushroom dressing (£11.95). My guest opted for the Tiger Prawns Linguini, cherry tomatoes, French beans chilli, garlic and parsley butter (£12.95).

My ravioli was simply out of this world. Incredibly tasty for a dish of this type, the pasta was fresh and melted in the mouth and the dressing was to die for. With plenty of Portobello mushrooms, this was a first class dish that really did offer that taste of Italy. I would put this down as a “must have” for anyone who likes Italian food.

My guest’s Linguini was also very well received. With plenty of generously sized prawns that were very meaty in texture, crunchy beans and tomatoes that popped when bitten into, this colourful dish offered everything. Another outstanding course that we would happily recommend.

My guest opted for the selection of cheese and biscuits (£5.95) to finish and our only criticism here was that we did not know what cheeses would arrive. I opted for the Chocolate Bomb, chocolate ice cream and chocolate sauce centre with real Belgian chocolate coating (£4.95). As a self-confessed chocoholic this dessert was never likely to disappoint and this was a more than enjoyable conclusion to my meal.

Décor                                                                                                                                                                                        The George is a traditional looking pub with a small bar at the main entrance and various seating available for those just wanting a quick drink or a snack. The restaurant is situated in a large conservatory to the back with approximately fifty covers. There is a massive contrast from the pub side to the conservatory which looks and feels like a restaurant. With the blinds pulled half way, there is an almost homely feel about the place.

Atmosphere                                                                                                                                                                             Visiting anywhere on a Monday is probably not the best time to judge the atmosphere of any location but this is definitely a “friendly” place with welcoming locals and is the place to go and relax and simply enjoy good company.  

Service                                                                                                                                                                                       You could not fault the service that came with a genuine and glowing smile. The team at The George know their food and what they are serving. Prompt and attentive, with impeccable timing if you needed anything, we left a tip on top of the normal service charge because we had enjoyed our meal so much.

If you have walked past Ask in Xscape and have yet to try this Italian restaurant, there’s a good chance it is on your ‘must try’ list simply because it is always so busy. Our table was booked for a Thursday evening at 730. The first thing to strike you about the restaurant is the noise. It’s loud. My guest pointed out that with minimal soft furnishings and reasonably loud music, the sound was literally bouncing off the walls.

Food

Once seated we opted for some freshly baked Ciabatta bread served with olive oil (£2.45) and marinated olives (£1.95). I would rather have seen the bread sliced, but my guest pointed out that breaking it apart ourselves was “more fun” and on reflection, they were probably right.

My guest ordered the Insalata, baby spinach, cherry tomatoes, cucumber, avocado, grana padano cheese and freshly toasted crutons (£3.95) and requested this without mushrooms. Despite the long list of ingredients, this dish was on the bland side and was described as “a little boring.”

Not a great start maybe, but I was pleased with my own choice, the Mushrooms Al Forno, baked mushrooms stuffed with mozzarella, grana padano cheese, chopped mushrooms, onions, garlic and breadcrumbs served with a garlic mayonnaise (£4.75). The mushrooms, served piping hot, were soft and juicy and bursting with flavour. There was ample garlic mayonnaise, and the coolness of this with the sizzling mushrooms made for an enjoyable introduction to food at Ask.

For mains I was keen to try a pizza. After looking for something spicy I was slightly disappointed until my eyes met with the Versuvio (£8.35). This is a new addition to the menu, spicy pepperoni, roasted red peppers, and fresh red chillies, on a base flavoured with red chilli flakes. I initially thought this would be a little too spicy but my guest told me to “go for it!” This is another tasty dish, with a thin and crispy base and plenty of pepperoni. Was it hot? Let’s just say I would strongly recommend a bottle of water to accompany this pizza. Please note I said “bottle” – I very much doubt one glass of water will do the job!

My guest chose a dish from the “Specials” the Risotto con Asparagi e Piselli (£8.95), creamy traditional Italian Risotto made with butter, cream, grana padano cheese and white wine, finished with asparagus spears, peas and parsley. The asparagus was laid in the form of a cross on top of the risotto and my guest commented that this was “beautifully presented”, proceeded to go very quiet and finished the lot!

Onwards to dessert but both struggling to find the room, it has to be said the choices are not inspiring but sometimes the menu does not do the food justice. We both opted for the cheesecakes; my guest the Lemon and Mascarpone Cheesecake (£4.95) and myself, the Honeycomb Cheesecake (£4.25). Both were deep with quite thin bases. My base was tastier and crunchier than the Lemon and Mascarpone but was incredibly sweet, creamy and quite light. My guest’s cheesecake was amazingly refreshing, zesty and not too rich. All in all, a better end to our meal than a glance to the menu suggested.

Décor

Ask almost has a café feel to it with an open frontage, and lots of square table with minimal decoration throughout. The bar is the most attractive feature and it is always nice to be able to see the chefs busy at work cooking your food. Unlike many chain restaurants, there is space to dine in comfort, but this is not the place to go for a romantic meal.

Atmosphere

Unfortunately I would say this establishment is noisy as opposed to buzzing. Because it is so noisy - you can see people leaning forwards to hear each other; this does make you wonder why music is necessary. This was however, still a pleasant experience, with a mixture of families, groups, youngsters and the more mature clientele, this is a place for anyone and everyone.

Service

The service at Ask was very much a team effort and the staff were eager to please. Having so many different waiters tending to your table does take away the personal touch, but it worked surprisingly well. Making minor adjustments to our menu choices and omitting certain ingredients was not a problem.

We have eaten at Quattros for many years now and we have always eaten very well. The service is courteous and efficient. The choice of food is extensive and the quality excellent. The fillet steak is especially good and is served with one of three very different and very good sauces. Easily the best restaurant within the Lancaster area. ... 

I have been to Pietruccio's a few times now and every single time I have visited I have been blown away with the quality of food and value for money, not to mention the very friendly staff and chef Pino himself. The 'Gourmet Menu' in which the previous Review from Peter refers to is an absolute must if you are thinking of paying Pietruccio's a visit. I would recommend this to anyone who loves quality ingredients, isn't afraid to try something new and likes the excitement of not knowing what is coming next. It consists of 7 different courses and in my opinion each a very substantial amount. I have had the Gourmet Menu 3 times now and had completely different courses each time (apart from Pino's amazing Hazelnut ice cream which is to die for) and everytime I have came out planning my next visit! If you are someone who really appreciates TRUE Italian food (and not the chains who think huge bowls of pasta and fried breaded mozzarela sticks constitues a good Italian meal) which uses fresh local ingredients then this is definitely the place to be and I guarantee you will keep going back.... 

Have just returned from what I can only say was a fabulous eating experience.The staff were very attentive and most welcoming,the surroundings very tranquil and the food was just sublime.... My husband and I enjoyed the food so much that the plates were wiped clean with the bread so as not to waste anything.When can I go back please:)... 

Not the first time I have visited Pietruccio's and how the times have changed for them. I don't often write reviews but after reading so many which extol their culinary and dining virtues and excellence, I have to disagree quite strongly. Apart from their food being extremely overpriced, pretentiously so in fact (for an Italian restaurant, I mean it's not as if we're short of choice in that department) the waiting staff were rude to me and the party of friends with whom I was dining, so rude in fact that one particular waitress was bordering on argumentative and quite publicly so. I have never been so embarrassed in all of my dining experiences. Had we have been a group of yobs, their responses may well have been justified but then, they price such clientel out of their market, the only plus point on their pricing structure, I feel. There was no menu, which I was surprised at and food just kept arriving every twenty minutes or so without choice or warning though when we expected the pre-requested coffee course (it took over ten minutes from the end of dessert for us to lose patience and put a discreet hand in the air) coffee never arrived. When questioned about this, the waitress again became very abrupt. I am incensed that patrons paying through the nose for what THEY want us to eat and in very small portions it must be said, can be treated in such a poor, rude and dismissive manner. Food was above average but not spectacular and not on par with previous visits, portions very small and certainly NOT worth their exorbitant price-tag. I shall never return to this restaurant ever again and forewarn others likewise and my friends and family feel the same. Overall, a teeth-pulling, embarrassing and awful night which cost a small fortune for the privilege. RA.... 

this is the most authentic styled resto i've been to in london, i feel like im in north italy, quite a cute place, atmosphere is very authentic, and decoration is amazing, i asked the owner and they have swedish wood tables which are rli old. the food is delicious even if presentation isnt exactly like gordon ramsey. they have some homemade desert is rli yummy. although the cd of music they play catches a bit its really great like atourist attraction.... 

An amazing restaurant in London, i love it, they have a very good chocolate mousse... 

I went at the end of july and was blown away by the food.....the portions are generous and the price excellent. There was a large party of us (15) so I saw lots of different dishes, they all looked and smelled divine. There was a lot of tasting going on! I had an amazing steak, huge, it was slightly rare for what i'd ordered. The waiter took it away and they cooked me another with no fuss or attitude. I am taking my husband there for his 40th birthday and cant wait to sample more of the menu!!! 

I was taken there by a friend, and as an Italian, I was quite offended by the name, it's not funny and it's not clever. But most importantly, the food was awful! How can they call that food Italian? Italian food is about fresh quality ingredients, the food I was served tasted boring and ready-made. 

This must be the worst place in the Docklands, rude staff, boring food (you could almost hear the microwave bells from the kitchen) and over priced. Never again! 

Been there few times now & each time the waiters go out their way to accommodate me and my wife and the baby.

Definitely would recommend it to any one with your family or with out 

best italian food in london in my opinion....tasty,delicious,generous,excellent friendly service....well done...i coould eat there everyday...well done boys... 

I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. Never again! 

I eat at la figa regularly......i love it, it is my favorite place to eat, the Pollo la figa is to die for.... and the best roast potatoes i have ever had.

Love this place, used to always go il bordello until i found this one.

cant understand how anyone cannot like it. 

We enjoyed a wonderfully delicious dinner while visiting London. Food was exceptional and portions large. Although wait staff was initially unsure of our questions they ended up providing the perfect amount of hospitality and friendliness. 

I wish this restaurant was still a best kept secret but the word is out. It is a warm family run Italian with great food, generous portions and a laid back environment that has not compromised on its excellent service. It is popular with families so if you are allergic to children or other people having a great time then this may not be your cup of tea. Dressy young couples on dates-tick. Businessman working the expense account-tick. Mummies and Daddies frumpy and grumpy or yummy-tick. Dress up or down you'll fit in. Modern decor but spacious and the chairs are comfortable (unlike it's sister Il Bordello in Wapping). Good parking availability and near DLR. Wheelchair accessible. They quickly get to know you and your likes and dislikes and Chef has always been very accommodating about little changes. They don't include service in the bill ! They currently do take-away and i'll be in heaven if they ever start delivery as well. The Fillet Dolcelatte is a wonderful way to clot the arteries and not care. The pizzas are so good you will eat the crusts too. The pasta is always perfectly al dante and smothered in sauce. Try the linguine sea scallops in aurora sauce- gorgeous. But leave the spaghetti meatballs for me! 

Firstly - Unfriendly service - waitress was very impatient, tearing off order notes in front of our eyes.

Secondly - food was overpriced, tasteless and very basic.

A meal deal (about £8) said: salads for starter and chili pasta for main. For salads it was literally 3 leaves of salad in plate with some olive oil... Pasta - not cooked enough and taste was horribly overkilled with garlic chili... Minestrone soup - few small pieces of vegetables floating in water.

As London visitors, I think, we were caught in one of those "tourist one-off visiting restaurants"...

We've never had such a bad restaurant experience before! 

delicious food, good service, nice people, one of the few restaurants we visited twice. 

very very nice nite out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money. 

3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly. 

Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 

I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening.

We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 

In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they.

The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers.

I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. 

I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation. 

First came here 5 years ago food fantastic.Came to london with my husband for the weekend booked a table at this resturant and was very disappointed. Menu choice poor lasagne small and dry.Pizza tasteless I suggest you change your chef. We will not be back. 

Where to Eat When You Come

Sodoma, San Benedetto's Easter DinnerFor a time, I also wrote restaurant reviews, as my travels around Italy do require eating out often. I have stopped because I rarely go to the same place twice, and reviews do have to be confirmed from year to year. But I have decided to leave the reviews I did up, because they will at least provide hints of places to go. This page has reviews and restaurant suggestions for Florence & vicinity.

La Cantinetta Antinori (Florence, Piazza Antinori)
Dai Ricchi (Cercina, near Florence)
L'Enoteca Fuori Porta (Florence, Porta San Niccolo)
L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi (Florence, San Frediano)
More restaurant suggestions, from Cosa Bolle in Pentola.

Not going to Florence?
Restaurants in the rest of Tuscany.
Restaurants in other parts of Italy.
Haven't found anything you can use? Ask Me, or post your questions on the BBS -- if I can't answer them someone else will probably be able to.

Back to the main index

La Cantinetta Antinori
Palazzo Antinori 3 Tel. (055) 292-234, closed Saturdays & Sundays (you'll want to make reservations in the summer).

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Back to restaurant list

Dai Ricchi
Florence, Via Della Docciola 14. Tel: 055/402024 Closed Tuesdays.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

Back to restaurant list

L'Enoteca Fuori Porta
Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

Back to restaurant list

L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi
Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Back to restaurant list
More Restaurant suggestions,
from Cosa Bolle In Pentola

Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.

She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:

    * 1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch
    * 2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs.
    * 3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon
    * 4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon
    * 5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun
    * 6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town)
    * 7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue
    * 8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon
    * 9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun
    * 10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun
    * 11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch

Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.
"Contact: Leo Porzio, Adria 2 Hotel, Via Montebello, 49, Florence 50123, Italy; phone: 011-39-55-212-086; fax: 011-39-55-215-029; e-mail: adria2@dada.it."

And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

He replies:

    "Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"

Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
"Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
"The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
"Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
"Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."

We went as a party of 4. All thought the food was very good, my main course of fillet ortolana was superb - fillet steak cooked in a rich deep red wine, onions and red pepper sauce.
The staff were friendly and helpful and with the restaurant pretty well full it created an all round lively atmosphere.

Not the most amazing italian I've every experienced but it's reasonably priced, reasonable italian food. Desserts are a bit of a disappointment and service isn't particularly attentive, but it's just kinda average.

Massive dissapointment. Cannot believe this is rated No1 in Wigan. The food was burnt, overcooked and tasteless. From 8 dishes for 4 people we did not get one average dish never mind good! Complained but the staff did not care at all and basically gave us the fingers up! Avoid would be my advice.

Went here for the first time on a 'low key' hen party (don't want to put people off!) Very good choice of seafood on the specials menu. Had whole seabream-cooked perfectly-only complaint could have done with more salad to accompany it. Would definitely return with family.

Been to this restaurant countless times over the last year (mainly for special occasions!) love it. food is fab, staff are fab, very clean and nicely set out. you arent rushed to leave once you have finished your meal and you arent waiting ages for food! The lamb shank is GORGEOUS!! You must try it!

had fillet steak with gorgonzola, wih roast potatoes and vegetables - super!!! only critisism was the steak was drowning in the cheese and meant the whole plate was swimming in it - plus the front of he resaurant is a bit shabby - but otherwise very very good indeed! May I suggest some intimate tables with candles for couples?

In all my 29 years I have never eaten such a tasty meal, I must say it is the best I have ever had.

*Fabulous food.
*Good portion sizes.
*Very clean.
*Excellant service.
*Very welcoming and obliging staff.

Can't wait to go back!

Great restaurant! No other Italian can live up to the great authentic food they serve here. Ive been well and truely spoilt. Even the Steak is great!
* Great food
* Friendly relaxed atmosphere
* Good value for money

*IF YOU LIKE ITALIAN YOU'LL LOVE IT!*

Always love it here, good food and service as well as nice atmosphere.

Once the staple dining experience of Soho, the old-school Italian trattoria is now a lesser-spotted breed - but it can still be spotted from time to time. Italian Graffiti is a classic of the genre:a dark interior, surprisingly spacious and endearingly unpretentious (we can also recommend the Trattoria Da Aldo round the corner on Greek Street). A visit here is like a trip back to the 1970s, with a menu that offers ripe pickings for nostalgics and a wood-heavy decor that's simply waiting for a preservation order. You half expect waiters to have the Godfather theme as their ringtone. Cream of asparagus soup made good use of seasonal ingredients, but tricolore salad was unspectacular. A main course of filling, creamy rigatoni with pancetta and peas was comforting, yet clearly designed to appeal to the steady flow of fiftysomething punters. At lunchtime, businessmen on reduced expenses flock here searching for a taste of their youth. Pizzas are more satisfying, but it's the experience you're paying for here - and prices are reasonable. Our only disappointment was that pudding didn't arrive on a dessert trolley.

Since opening a couple of years ago, Princi has become the principal hangout for Italians-who-lunch, Soho's media pack and the occasional student opting for something nicer than a supermarket baguette. Long black granite counters filled with comestibles stretch across the length of the room, starting with sweets by the door and ending with hot savouries and drinks at the back.

It's all very tempting, but the ordering system is still a bit of a shambles, with no real queue to join, different sections for different foods, and harried staff. Try, if you can, to visit off-peak; then, you're able to sit down quietly on any of the stools at (otherwise packed) communal tables and enjoy big rectangular slices of pizza, or platefuls of fresh, Italian-style salads and pastas made like nonna's own. Come winter, there are hot dishes such as osso buco too, or you could take home a giant Princi-made panettone for the Christmas holidays. A slice of Milan in the heart of Soho.

Goodfellas meets the Godfather is how we'd describe this atmospheric Soho eatery, which specialises in Sicilian cuisine. Cosy and eclectic, Il Siciliano is the quintessential Italian restaurant complete with gesticulating waiters, hand-written menus, a Dean Street address and charismatic lighting. The likes of Paul McCartney and Rupert Everett have been known to enjoy a meal here, and Il Siciliano is popular with in-the-know luvvies for pre/post theatre meals, and is also ideal as a meeting place for a fun nights out with friends. Spread out over two floors, the dining room has an intimate feel and favourites from the menu include the fillet steak with peppercorn sauce, the homemade lasagne, and the light and fluffy profiteroles.

New branches doff their beret to the vintage interior of the original, but never achieve its quirky, Toulouse-Lautrec warmth. Here you're as likely to find yourself sitting next to Hermès-bedecked ladies as Soho-ites or businessmen killing time between meetings. Cappuccino came with a thick layer of foam as distinct as the layers of the garishly decorated gateaux in the counter display. A big pile of moist tuna and plump white anchovies featured in a generous salade niçoise - though grey rings around the egg yolks are never a pleasant sight. Custard doughnut had a glazed plastic look and bubble-gum flavour, but was made from good light dough and decent crème pâtissière

Made in Italy is a cosy little haunt in the centre of Soho that is famous for its nostalgic Neapolitan menu and outstanding pizza al metro – authentic Napoli pizza by the metre. Popular with a hip London collection of theatre goers, media workers and pizza lovers, Made in Italy is always crammed with an animated crowd amidst the Soho flurry of bars, boutiques and cafés. Created by a team of Sicilian and Neapolitan restaurateurs, Made in Italy is an atmospheric West End restaurant that is a perfect place to meet friends or colleagues for after-work dates or fun nights out, and the southern Italian setting attracts lots of ex-pats craving traditional Amalfi-coast classics like antipasti, pasta and wood-fired pizzas.

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.
Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.
It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.
Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.

White leather chairs and natural stone abound in this thoroughly chic, modern Italian restaurant. The organic materials and austere geometric shapes echo chef Francesco Mazzei's incorporation of luxurious, flavorful ingredients into simple but delicious dishes. Diners can expect pastas such as wild mushroom fettuccine to be cooked to perfection, as well as succulent main courses such as a spit roast leg of lamb with cannellini beans and olives.
Considered by many to be the finest Italian dining in London, this terrific restaurant also comes with steep prices and a wait — book at least a month in advance. Once you do make it in, you'll find elegant Italian food at its best. Lobster spaghetti, antipasto, baked fish, Tuscan soup, and asparagus-stuffed ravioli with sage butter and parmesan all win high marks. The bright, well-appointed room offers fabulous views.
Accomplished cuisine leaps to the forefront at this intimate, charming restaurant, which sits not far from the Thames. Classified as "modern Italian," the food reads "simply delicious" to regulars. Simple but appealing starters range from octopus salad with panzanella to ravioli with aubergine; standout main courses have included roast rabbit with celery, onion, peppers, capers and pine nuts, and roast turbot with potato, artichokes and olives. Steaks and seafood are available as well, along with amazing pastas. Lush, fruit-accented desserts deserve notice, and a terrific list of Italian wines is a welcome boon.
You'll need to book early to get a table at this well-known spot, whose authentic Italian fare is served simply but with style, and is considered by many to be the best in London. Starters include buffalo mozzarella and tomatoes atop thinly sliced fresh bread (called "carta di musica," or music paper) — unadorned but superb. Fresh crab with olive oil and lettuce is also basic but delicious, as are pastas, including homemade noodles with a selection of fresh herbs and crushed walnut.
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.

There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.

This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.
For the following confession, I can only throw myself on your mercy. For 37 whole minutes I had stood outside Jamie's Italian, gurning insanely at diners on the other side of the window in a futile bid to force them out, and the queue had moved all of two inches.

Why this first in Jamie Oliver's planned chain won't take reservations for parties of fewer than eight I'm still not sure, although a young woman hinted at some kind of anti-elitist philosophy when I rang in the naive hope of booking.

Now, I'm all for anti-elitism, yet this was already my most dismal Oxford moment since late 1981 when, under extreme pressure, I admitted to the classics dons of Trinity that my 1,500-word entrance exam essay on Euripides' Alcestis had been based entirely on the blurb on the back of the Penguin Classic. "So you haven't actually, erm, read the play?" one of them inquired. Murmuring whatever the 1981 version of "I'll get me coat" might have been, I was gone.

The interview of 27 years later, when a waitress walked the line taking names and numbers, was barely less humiliating. Call it Winnerial Disease, if you must, but faced with another hour or more before getting a seat, I gingerly blew my own cover and was led inside to wait at the bar, where my friends found me staring catatonically at a TV screen showing chefs making fresh pasta. Another 20 minutes passed before we went down to the basement, much as Hercules descended into Hades to rescue Alcestis. (As if those blurbs don't give you all you need. What were those Trinity elitists thinking of?)

All in all, then, the experience wasn't fully authentic. But then neither is this restaurant, which stands beside a thoroughfare known locally as "vomit alley" and is rather more town than gown. Jamie Oliver has a real love for Italian cuisine, as do all graduates of the River Cafe, but there is something wilfully unItalian about the ethos of serving hordes (160 covers) as quickly as possible, albeit with enthusiastic charm, to keep that queue trickling along.

"Well, it's not pretentious, is it?" said one of us, squinting through the gloom to take in the open-plan kitchen half-hidden behind a brick wall, and the semi-psychedelic splashes of colour arrayed elsewhere. "You cannot accuse it of that."

The place buzzes engagingly with the sound of people relishing fairly priced food, and the bustle fits in nicely with a cheap'n'cheerful'n'only slightly self-reverential menu ("My favourite humble green salad", etc) from which we ordered vastly with few disappointments.

Particularly splendid was a bruschetta with crispy pancetta, even if it took a while to arrive because, as our enchanting young waiter reported, "it comes from a different station than the other breads" (penis envy, we guessed, occasioned by the grissini). Also great were three pasta dishes, penne arrabiata zinging with hot chillies, "lovely and sweet" linguine with prawns, and a richly satisfying pappardelle with sausage. One of us, an Italian herself, wasn't wild about her pumpkin and ricotta ravioli with "beautiful rosemary sauce" (watch yourself, Jamie boy, we'll be the judge of that), which she found oversalted and not al dente enough. But a shared board of antipasti included such delights as San Daniele ham and top-quality pecorino.

So lavish are the portions that we could contentedly have stopped there and then; and, on fiscal and culinary grounds sticking to such outstanding homemade pasta may be the wisest way to eat here. But we ploughed on all the same, and the main courses weren't half-bad, either.

My chargrilled "Catherine Wheel" sausage, with deliciously sloppy Parmesan and mushroom polenta, spoke spicily of a happy and fulfilled pig, and the one complaint about a salad of pecorino, pear and prosciutto was that, like the alliteration, there was too much of it. Three juicy lamb chops were perfectly pink, and half a chicken served with a tomato and chilli salsa was "unusually good", according to one whose sole qualification to comment on food derives from a stint as the Honey Monster's sidekick. Chips, on the other hand, were spongy and chickpeas didn't need the confusion of balsamic vinegar.

The best came last by way of a sublime trio of ice creams made to a recipe of Gennaro Contaldo, Jamie's old mentor, who was heavily involved in opening this first of a chain cunningly targeted at such other urban foodie deserts as Bath and Cambridge. Whenever a big-name chef sets out along Gary Rhodes Avenue, the chasm between his histrionic passion for bespoke cooking and the hard realities of off-the-peg mass catering induces unease. But anti-elitist affordability can work brilliantly, as proved by the Carluccio chain that presumably inspired this budding one, and if Jamie can replicate this early Oxford form, he will soon be driving a prize herd of recession-proof cash cows across the land.

One closing word of caution, though. Take a book (have you read the Alcestis? I'm told it's terribly good), a flask of tea and preferably a tent on the safe assumption that it will be worth the wait.
Trullo is a new Italian restaurant on St. Pauls Rd, Islington, adjacent to bustling Highbury Corner and behind the beautiful Highbury Fields. Trullo’s menu and wine list aim to bring the best seasonal Italian food to a simple, fun neighbourhood restaurant.
The food at Trullo is inspired by Tim and Jordan’s love for old-fashioned Italian cooking, which eschews cleverness for simplicity, always putting the quality and provenance of the ingredients above the technical wizardry of the chef.

Fresh pasta and a real charcoal grill are the counterpoints of the menu at Trullo, contrasting the silky elegance of hand-made pasta, rolled just before service, with the unbeatable flavour of food cooked over burning coals.
Towards the end of our rather lovely dinner at Trullo, the sort of dinner that can restore your faith in the often grisly business of getting food cooked for you by other people in return for money, my companion asked what I didn't like about the place. I mentioned the over-salting of the long-baked aubergines. He agreed. And there was a slight lemon curd-esque quality to the filling of a lemon tart. But that, I said, was more an observation than a criticism. The pastry had been seriously good. I looked about the simply furnished room: the white walls, the open kitchen, the net curtains to halfway up the windows, like a classic Italian trattoria. Most of all there was the chatter and buzz of happy people being fed well, for a sum of money that wouldn't leave them feeling like they had been rigorously violated. Terrifyingly young people moved with determination and ease about the crowded tables.

My one fear, I said, was that they couldn't keep it up; that I'd give it a glowing review and then get emails from furious readers in six months' time saying it was no longer such a star. All this tells you more about my bitter cynicism than it does about Trullo, which, like all great restaurants, makes the business of running them look simple. Get someone with good taste who knows how to cook. Find cheery, efficient waiters. Get the latter to bring what the former has made to the tables, and charge a reasonable sum for it. It is the dream neighbourhood restaurant, though sadly not in mine.

The team here has an interesting pedigree. In the kitchen is Tim Siadatan, one of the original recruits to Jamie Oliver's Fifteen project, who graduated from there to both St John and Moro. The influence of all three places is felt in plates of simple, ingredient-led food, with a generally Italian bent. Front of house is run by Jordan Frieda, who used to be front of house at the River Café. Some have argued that this means the great work of the late Rose Gray is therefore continuing in this small dining room. I'm not so sure. The excruciatingly expensive River Cafe always felt to me like peasant food at plutocrat prices. Here, where a plate of impeccable handmade pasta costs £4.50, it's peasant food at prices the mere bourgeoisie could afford.

The menu is short, self-confident and ever-changing. The success of a cannellini bean bruschetta had less to do with the beans themselves, good though they were, than the wonderful olive oil, the crunch of salt and the aromatic green herbs. The true stars of the piece, though, are the pasta dishes. Wide, butter-yellow ribbons of papperdelle came with an earthy stew of wood pigeon, in a ripe gravy that insinuated itself into every corner of the dish. Tagliarini was mined with nutty, intense brown shrimps and fine strips of courgette – zucchini in the menu, a minor affectation – and chilli. It was perfectly seasoned and judged.

A slab of lamb rump was charcoal charred outside, baby-cheek pink inside and properly seasoned. Alongside it lay a stew of green and yellow beans. Hunks of slow-cooked veal shin were dressed with a perky salsa verde and accompanied by long-baked aubergine which, oversalting aside, had a soft, melting texture. Other than two very serviceable tarts – the Amalfi lemon, and one of almond layered with raspberries – there was a strawberry ice cream and a Charentais melon sorbet. The latter tasted simply like melon blitzed through a sorbet machine, without the aid of extra sugar. This is a good thing.

Wine list pricing is, like everything else here, eminently reasonable. Or, as they say in the small print, "We put a set mark up on all our bottles of wine of about £10, less for inexpensive wines." It is a refreshing candour. Yet I worry. Few people go into the restaurant business to make money, not least because very few do so. Wine mark-ups are one way to stay in business. Making just a tenner on each bottle is very touching, but will it keep the books balanced? I do hope so, because this is one restaurant I want to see succeed.
Arguably the most famous Italian in Leeds, Bibis Italianissimo, gorgeously art deco surroundings and white linen clad waiters (a draw in itself), worthy of Frank Sinatra or Grace Kelly, perfectly complements the gorgeous food on offer. Steaks and seafood nestle next to more traditional options. Although you do pay a little more for the sumptuous surroundings, the early bird menu, which changes weekly in a reflection of the local, seasonal ingredients Bibis loves to use, is worthy of a peek.
A relative newcomer to the scene, and provided you can forgive it its slightly gimmicky name, Ciao Bella serves up a modern interpretation of Italian – think chicken goujons. They have a special ‘taste of Italy’ section of their menu which offers everything from shank of lamb to veal escalope – suitable for those whose tastes extend beyond the standard pizza and pasta fare. Although service can be a little slow, the food is worth the wait.
Proving that chain restaurants don’t have to have a derivative of ‘pizza’ in their name, Casa Mia and Brios both offer imaginative, quality Italian dishes in friendly, busy atmospheres. With multiple restaurant locations throughout Leeds, there are plenty of opportunities to sample their delights. Casa Mia even offers a takeaway service – absolutely perfect for those cold, wet Yorkshire nights you don’t want to go out in but when you still deserve more than a greasy pizza.
A little further afield but most definitely worth the effort, the Flying Pizza offers 12 inches of crispy dreaminess in its pizza menu which deserves to be sampled and is rightly famous for. Additionally, Salvo’s (last spotted on Gordon Ramsey’s The F Word where it won best neighbourhood Italian restaurant) is an absolute must visit.

The menu is incredibly comprehensive and authentic, with a high class edge. As well as your standard lasagne and pizzas, you can tuck into pan roasted king scallops, grilled sardines and venison meatballs. The fondue dessert is particularly fantastic – and if it’s good enough for Gordon.
If you prefer your Italian ambience more authentic (washed wood furniture, checked tablecloths and candlelight) try Viva. Nestled in an inconspicuous place on Leeds bridge, it’s a well overlooked gem. With a hands-on Italian owner, friendly service, extensive menu and tasty limoncello, it’s the real Italian job. Listen closely and you’ll notice most of its customers are Italian themselves – could there be a higher recommendation.
If you dream of Tuscany on your tongue, crispy, crunchy pizza and oozing garlic bread – you’re in luck. Leeds has plenty to offer those with a taste for all things Italian. If you’re after the epitome of what Leeds does well – the modern, slick, shiny chandelier-type Italian, check out Mio Modo or Primo cafe bar and restaurant.
C London, formerly called Cipriani, is great for celeb-spotting and always has a buzzy atmosphere. Bocca di Lupo in Soho serves authentic dishes, which are all available in small tapas-style portions for sharing. Sit down at the chef’s counter for a view of the open kitchen, an experience every bit as theatrical as dining at a chef’s table.

Heinz Beck, whose La Pergola restaurant in Rome has three Michelin stars, is in charge at Apsleys – last time I went Jay-Z was dining there. And Ristorante Semplice is fast becoming a favourite with our members. It serves seasonal food, simply prepared, and the freshest mozzarella you’ve ever tasted.
Carmine’s is a family style, value-driven restaurant concept with locations in New York City, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Nassau Bahamas, and Washington DC.  Restaurateur Artie Cutler created Carmine’s with one goal in mind: to open a restaurant that would serve every meal in the style of an Italian American wedding feast, featuring extra large portions of home-style antipasto, pastas, seafood and meat entrees served on extra large platters designed for sharing. Carmine’s is the perfect place to casually enjoy friends and family over great food and wine, with excellent service, the way it used to be at grandma’s house.
It would be helpful if I knew why she thinks it is a D paper; that seems a bit harsh. It does have some punctuation mistakes and a few awkward phrasings, but overall, is a pretty good essay. I will show you some places that need help:

Not all Italian restaurants serve the same Italian style food or provide the same atmosphere for their customers. Olive Garden is a nice Italian restaurant that serves its purpose of satisfying your taste buds of wanting an Italian fix. - The part in bold is awkward; better would be something like "that serves its purpose: satisfying the craving for Italian, when no other kind of food will do."

The service is either steady and fast or downright slow. If you do not time your dinner just right, you could wait 1 – 2 hours just to get seated. If you are craving Italian it will provide the fix, but not leave you wanting to come back the next day for a repeat. The menu has brightly colored pictures of what the entrée will look like and that is reassuring for someone like me who does not like to take a risk with the unknown. The setting is either booths or tables that are very clean with crisply folded linen napkins and festive Italian music playing throughout the restaurant. When prepared well, the food tastes very good but all of the food has the same taste. The employees seem to be there just for the paycheck; they don't seem excited by their job. The prices are very reasonable, with most entrees costing around $12.00-$14.00. I will continue to go to Olive Garden when I crave Italian and I am near the restaurant. Olive Garden is to "real" Italian what McDonald's is to authentic American food. My family tends to call Olive Garden, "McItalian." (Wouldn't "McTalian" sound better?)

Unlike Olive Garden, D'Giovonni's is much more relaxing and the food is authentic. Reservations are allowed, so there is really never a wait to get in. The food melts in your mouth. The food taste so good that you want to take your time and savor every bite. The portions are double that of any other restaurant. There are always leftovers for lunch and dinner the following day. The restaurant is small and sits along the water's edge. Diners who have finished eating tend to stay around for awhile just to take in the breathtaking views of the boats coming in and out of dock. The tables are covered in maroon linens with candles set in the middle of each table. Every employee takes a special pride in working at D'Giovonni's and it clearly shows. [Saying "working" instead of "in their job" avoids the problem of the the singular "employee" and plural "their.] The owner comes out and personally goes around to each table to see if you are pleased with the service and the food. The employees [apostrophes make words possessive, not plural] seem happy to be there to assist you and if you want to make an adjustment to an entrée that is on the menu they will do their best to accommodate you, even if this means bringing out the chef to talk to you personally. You would think that because the chef is from Italy the food would be more expensive. However, that is not the case; the food ranges from $14.00-$18.00 per entrée. Considering the chef's experience, the cost is a steal. You get a delightful meal and the amazing sunsets on the Chesapeake Bay, all for a reasonable price.
For years, award-winning Valentino has provided not only excellent Italian cuisine but impeccable service and a vast wine list as well. Antipasti include carpaccio and Italian bread salad, while pasta and risotto options are perfect in their simplicity — try potato and spinach gnocchi or garlic-infused spaghetti with clams. Representative entrees include swordfish with onion and olive caponata, grilled squab in honey-fig-red wine sauce, and osso buco. The wine list has over 1000 choices, including vintage ports; several grappas are also available. Tasting menu is $55 without wine; $95 with wine pairings.
This dimly lit, cozy restaurant offers delectable Italian fare and plenty of atmosphere. Wall sconces and candelabras illuminate steaming plates of lobster ravioli, perfectly cooked risottos, langostini, and filet mignon with porcini mushrooms. Fresh fish specials are also particularly good. Due to the small space, noise levels rise quickly, but that doesn't stop patrons from deeming the place great for a date or a romantic dinner. N.B. Rock guitarist Warren Cuccurullo is a part-owner, so don't be surprised if you spot a celebrity or two.
Being situated below street level gives this upscale, old-fashioned Northern Italian restaurant a special ambience that attracts both stars and star-gazers. Famous for its veal and carpaccio dishes, the establishment also serves first-rate Tuscan soup, eggplant parmigiana, and ravioli stuffed with Italian sea bass. A favorite for power lunches and special dinners, the restaurant is often quite packed, so expect a bit of a wait.
"Intimate" is an understated way to describe this postage stamp-sized restaurant just a few steps away from the beach. Taking cues from the other Venice, this tiny spot serves authentic Italian dishes, rich in flavor and exactingly prepared. Diners enjoy candlelit tables and black-and-white photographs of Venezia while savoring entrees like roasted breast of duck in aged balsamic vinegar sauce and pistachio-crusted lamb loin. A five-course seasonal tasting menu can also be had.
Chef Gino Angelini heads this osteria (in Italy, a simple, country restaurant where wine and food are the main attractions), and Angelenos couldn't be happier. The space is tiny and crowded, but regulars know that a bit of a wait and no elbow room are small prices to pay for Italian food this luscious. Pumpkin tortelli with butter, sage, and asparagus is a mouthwatering first plate, while dishes like Romagna-style Dover sole, encrusted with garlic and parsley, and a breaded veal chop alla Milanese are excellent secondi.
At Il Pastaio, brothers Celestino and Giacomino Drago spin the sort of culinary magic that's made their whole family famous in Southern California. Working with the freshest pastas and produce, the chefs prepare antipasti, duck ragout, and penne with swordfish to please even the most discerning palates. Risottos are abundant and always unique, and truffle-cheese fondue is an excellent choice for polishing off the evening.
Locanda Veneta is considered one of the best Italian restaurants in the city, thanks to its elegant atmosphere, award-winning cuisine, and world class wine selection. Featured menu items include ricotta and spinach ravioli in a fresh asparagus sauce, veal scaloppini, and grilled jumbo shrimp with lots of garlic. The service is almost as renowned as the food, which adds to the overall appeal. This place is very small and very popular, so reservations are essential.
This trattoria with the intriguing name — it translates as "three Venetian regions" — offers an innovative menu with pasta, meat, and seafood dishes with Austrian influences. House specialties include salt cod mousse, ricotta ravioli with beets, and thick pork chops with gorgonzola sauce. Nestled away in Old Town, Tre Venezie has the mystique of a well-kept local secret. An extensive list of wines — Italian, of course — is also available.
At this engaging restaurant, the owner cooks while his daughter seats customers — and they rarely meet strangers. Tuscan cuisine is the attraction, as illustrated by pasta e fagioli soup, veal Milanese, and a variety of raviolis and gnocchis. Daily specials are always a good choice, and the wine list is extensive and variable in price. A favorite with celebrities and other Hollywood types.
Northern Italian cuisine is given the royal treatment at this infinitely romantic number, a place where words like "flawless" and "perfection" aren't just abstract terms ... they're measurable daily standards. Owner-Chef Michael Cetrulo never fails to dazzle with dishes like his peppered rib venison chop with port and balsamic vinegar sauce or tuna Milanese with arugula, cucumber and tarragon salad. For connoisseurs, the wine list is noteworthy for the emphasis it places on products from small, specialty vineyards.
Known for the large portions of garlic-heavy, Italian cuisine, Il Mulino is definitely a popular spot among New York Villagers who really know good Italian. Prepare to wait at this hot spot, but never fear, the experience is worth both the wait and the money. 
L'incontro makes a terrific argument for an excursion. Located in Astoria, this eatery is dressed for style and comfort — a rustic brick oven, earthy tones of brown and terra cotta, white linens, original artwork and lush greenery. Servers recite Chef Rocco Sacramone's daily specials from memory, and his homemade renditions of dishes like grilled octopus, mascarpone and pesto-stuffed ravioli, and Mediterranean sea bass are superbly done. If pizza is more your speed, their brick oven gems are a must. Music is featured Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
This Upper East Sider features fabulous homestyle Italian cuisine and a cozy atmosphere, including candle lit tables, soft lighting and a friendly waitstaff. Expect to find an older crowd here — after all, they know best — as well as a few well-heeled youngsters who just adore the place's romantic atmosphere. Specialties include linguine with white clam sauce, stuffed veal, wood-fired fish skewers and lamb chops. Take your time and enjoy the break Erminia affords . . . just make sure you save room for dessert. 
The husband-wife duo of Emiliano Coppa and Anna Klinger has won over the heart, soul and appetite of Brooklyn's Park Slope area with their delightful foray into traditional Venetian cuisine. Each dish here is lovingly prepared, and the labor-intensive process translates into a long, leisurely experience that allows for the enjoyment of fine wines and good company. Indeed, well worth the wait are dishes like beet ravioli with melted butter and poppy seeds, ricotta gnocchi, and braised rabbit with black olives and polenta.
Tucked away on Waverly Place in a former coach house, Babbo offers Italian in its purest form. Known for its classic simplicity both in décor and menu selections, this establishment provides diners with exotically named, sumptuous pastas and meats flavored to perfection by chef Mario Batali. Top off your meal with an authentic Italian wine from the extensive wine list. The lovely bi-level setting and skylight provide connoisseurs with the perfect backdrop to a truly unique meal.
One of the borough's best, you'll find Roberto's terra cotta facade nestled between the park and the Bronx's version of Little Italy, Arthur Avenue. The scene is pleasant, comfortable, even a tad rustic thanks to elements like the wooden, farmhouse-style tables (great for larger parties). Homemade pasta dishes are delivered in deliciously heaping portions, but wise regulars know to check the chalkboard of daily specials before they order. Indeed, Chef Roberto Paciullo never fails to offer a handful of dazzling choices like veal scalloppine or baked corkscrew pasta wrapped in tin foil.
If you are looking for traditional Italian with full flavor then you have come to the right place. The small, formal dining room offers a comfortable place to enjoy delicious spaghetti carbonara, prosciutto with melon or veal chops. Experienced presentation and outstanding service make your dining experience a true delight.
As the name would indicate, this Italian restaurant takes opera as seriously as it does cuisine. Polished woods and opera-themed art set the scene for a wealth of delicious dishes, including veal, poultry, seafood, and pastas. Expanding the options are such specialties as gnocchi, sweetbreads, parchment-baked salmon, and grilled eggplant. The family-owned place is a great destination for romantic dinners too.
Playfully bestowed with the Italian word for "optimist" — that is, one who always believes that the glass is half full — this wine bar also has a way with Italian-inspired tapas. Offering more than 200 by-the-bottle options, Ottimista showcases a changing 25 by-the-glass selections, concentrating on northern Italian vintages. Choose your favorite, and couple it with items like truffled mushroom risotto, a hand-crafted salumi plate, artisanal cheeses, pumpkin ravioli, or a roasted half-chicken. A great date-worthy place.
This chic restaurant specializes in Ligurian fare, native to Italy's northwestern region. Seafood is prominent, and cioppino is especially well-prepared. Other possibilities include roasted rabbit, panzanella, and wood-fired pizzas. Plus, menu items change from time-to-time, regularly offering new options. Hip locals often frequent the establishment, taking advantage of family-style meals and lively atmosphere. You'll also find live jazz on the weekends.
Simplicity and authenticity reign at this small, popular restaurant. Zinc tabletops and exotic hardwoods bear this out, as does the incomparable Italian fare with its top-notch ingredients. Treat yourself with grilled calamari salad, braised rabbit, steak frites, roasted chicken, or salmon with fresh vegetables. Although Delfina has garnered much acclaim since it premiered, the trattoria still delights with casual ambience, friendly service and satisfyingly reasonable prices — all boons to dining aficionados.
Constantly bustling, this restaurant along the southern edge of Golden Gate Park offers a cozy, relaxed atmosphere. It also dishes up top-quality Italian food, friendly service, and great prices. A favorite with both locals and visitors, it has the feel of a comfortable lodge, perfect for cocktails and dinner by the fireplace or a casual lunch on the heated outdoor porch. Menu items include hamburgers, steaks, wood-fired pizzas, seafood linguini, and poultry.
Given the size of the kitchen, it's hard to believe that so much tasty food springs from a lone oven. Its bounty includes thin-crust pizzas, fragrant foccacia, skewered lamb, a daily roast and baked pastas. Another favorite, milk-braised roast pork, also elicits raves from regulars. The restaurant has only a handful of tables, so waits are common, but the owners prefer the immediacy of small groups and the pleasure of genuine attention. A short wine list is available, and prices are extremely reasonable.
The romantic atmosphere, enhanced by classical guitar music, may be the first thing you notice upon entering. The second will surely be the aroma of perfectly-prepared Italian dishes. Excellent service and wonderful selections hint at the restaurant's popularity, which extends to celebrities and local residents alike. The menu features a range of pastas and antipasti, along with such delectable entrees as roasted duck, rack of lamb, beef tenderloin, fresh fish, and even sweetbreads. Go prepared to savor this wonderful dining experience! Complimentary valet parking is available after 5pm. Outdoor seating in season.
Polished woods and hand-crafted detailing characterize this lovely restaurant, which features an open kitchen, along with upstairs and downstairs dining rooms. Frequented by professionals at lunch, Tulio is known for its authentic cuisine and attentive service. The menu includes such treats as salmon ravioli, sweet-potato gnocchi with sage butter, pepper-crusted roast pork loin, and marinated Washington lamb sirloin. You'll also find pizzas and calzones on the lunch menu. Tulio makes the perfect start to any special evening occasion. At times, you may even spot a celebrity!
Enjoy views of Lake Washington from the waterside patio, or warm yourself by the dining room's fireplace when the temperature drops; diners come to this neighborhood trattoria year-round for luscious Northern Italian dishes. The house specialty of pappardelle (made in-house) with ground veal, portobello mushrooms, and a light wine sauce is always a safe bet. More adventurous diners can try pan-seared scallops in a red pepper coulis, or bow-tie pasta with salmon and artichoke hearts. Decadent treats like dark chocolate mousse await for dessert.
Well-attended by patrons of all sorts, this popular destination is perennially full and has even received a vote for "Best Downtown Lunch" by Seattle Magazine. Capitalizing on its combination of Mediterranean and Northwest fare, the wide-ranging menu features paella, fire-roasted garlic chicken, poached seafood ravioli, wild mushroom risotto, and fresh Pacific salmon. You'll also find a good selection of both traditional and exotic pizzas. Depending on your mood and your time constraints, choose to partake in the dining room, in the large bar area, or in the cafe, which offers the quickest service.
Intimate, romantic, and adorned with Renaissance artwork, Assaggio brings you the best of Italy without your ever having to leave Seattle! Owned and managed by Mauro Golmarvi, the restaurant guarantees diners the best Italian fare. The menu offers a range of pasta, chicken, veal, and seafood entrees, but must-try dishes include pappardella bosciaola (pasta flavored with mushrooms, Marsala, and Barolo wine) and agnello osso buco, the traditional favorite made with lamb instead of veal. Marco's frequent trips to Italy also ensure that a wealth of Italian wines are available to complement any dish.
Comfortable and unpretentious, Serafina has been a Seattle favorite for years. Its cuisine draws on rustic traditions of the Italian countryside and is eminently satisfying. Representative dishes include buckwheat pasta, slow-cooked lamb shanks, braised rabbit, homemade veal meatballs, pumpkin-leek ravioli, and a ragu of duck, veal, and pork. You'll also find steamed mussels, rich sausages, and wild-mushroom risotto. Dessert options include a luscious chocolate-hazelnut torte, sweet profiteroles, and a homey rhubarb crisp.
Funky and hip, this Italian eatery features rustic food and boasts live entertainment in the adjacent lounge. The interior has a certain bohemian charm, but the best area to dine is on the rooftop deck, which affords a magnificent view of Puget Sound. To start a meal, begin with bruschetta or the antipasto plate of savory morsels. Entrees, then, include Tuscan grilled chicken, gnocchi with wild mushrooms, roasted pork loin, and Muscovy duck. You'll find, in fact, a range of pastas and, also, a daily risotto special that's usually a great bet! Comforting desserts include such fare as bread pudding and apple crisp.
Whether you’re looking for a light refreshing bite, a cosy meal for two or a fresh and healthy treat for the family then Sazio is the ideal place to be. Our menu offers a vast and varied choice of freshly prepared dishes in a modern, contemporary style using only the best ingredients imported directly from Italy. In addition to this we have a great value fixed price lunch menu for £5.95, which is available Monday to Saturday.
We also have a choice of daily specials, which give an ever-changing choice to our many loyal customers. Whether it’s an Intimate meal for two or a party to celebrate something special, Sazio offers everything you need to let your hair down Italian style.
Conveniently situated in the heart of St Albans opposite the clock tower Sazio is an Italian food lovers dream. Our menu incorporates many different flavours using only the best ingredients imported directly from Italy.

A cosy entrance leads to a large vibrant bar area that overlooks the restaurant which can seat up to one hundred people. Offering an extensive wine list and popular cocktail menu sazio is the perfect venue for small and large parties alike.
Manchester’s best Italian restaurant is always buzzing and is a great spot for people watching.
I’ve yet to visit San Carlo on a quiet day and the constant stream of people through the door shows that the restaurant knows how to please its customers. If you want to sample the high-quality Italian food and soak up the atmosphere, make sure that you book a table well in advance.
Pizzas and pastas sit next to steaks and fresh fish on the menu and, although prices are higher than Manchester’s average Italian restaurant, the wide choice means that you can go for a reasonably-priced meal or really splurge depending on your mood and wallet. Ingredients are fresh - you can see the day’s fish as you walk in; pizzas are large - I went for a thinner stretched one the last time I ate here and it overhung my plate; and little extras like olives on the table when you arrive and a complimentary plate of biscuits with your coffee are touches that make San Carlo stand out.
Despite being a vast space with room for 200 people, San Carlo manages to fill its red leather seats. The crowd tend to be a well-turned out bunch and look out for celebrities and footballers in the sea of diners.
Service is fast and the staff are friendly. You tend to be served by more than one waiter though and this can sometimes cause confusion - I was given the wrong bottle of wine on a recent visit.
San Carlo is just off Deansgate on King Street West. In the heart of the city centre, the location makes it a perfect place for a lunch while shopping or a dinner before a night out in Manchester.
Mains start at £7.90 (for a Margherita) and go up to £20.95 for steaks.
I like to be in the thick of it so would ask to sit in the main part of the restaurant rather than the raised section on the way to the toilets. However, if you want a quieter meal, this may be for you. The booths are my favourite spot - especially if I am eating with a group of friends.
Manchester’s hottest new opening serves exciting Italian food and is the place to be seen.
San Carlo can do no wrong in Manchester; it is always busy and you have to book well in advance to guarantee a table. So, when the group decided to open a new restaurant opposite, its arrival was eagerly awaited. I love the concept of this stylish new eating place - make up a meal by ordering several small dishes, sip good wine and soak up the chic, marble-clad atmosphere.

Cicchetti are small dishes or snacks typically served in bars in Venice. The menu and specials board are crammed full of these tempting tasters from gnocci to sea bass, bread and olives to melanzane parmigiana (aubergine baked in a tomato sauce with parmesan). I have yet to sample a bad plate of food here as each is packed with flavour. Ask your waiter to help you choose a wine to complement your meal - I tried to order a glass of Montepulciano d'Abruzzo with my last meal but was advised against it and told to try the rosso piceno (a wise choice).

Cicchetti’s interior is light and white and positively sparkles. A long marble bar is an inviting spot to have a drink and huge windows look onto King Street West on one side and Kendals on the other. The average diner is as well turned out as the decor but I didn’t feel out of place slumming it in my jeans recently. As the restaurant is proving to be as popular as its older sister restaurant, expect to wait for a table at weekends.

The all Italian staff are welcoming and offer valuable advice on the day’s specials, the wine list and how much to order. Service can be stretched at peak times though.
 
Wrapped around the side of the city centre’s House of Fraser, the L-shaped restaurant can be entered from the store or from an entrance on King Street West.
 
Dishes are, on average, £6 each (cicchetti size) and wine is roughly £5 a glass. Avoid over-ordering as some of the dishes, especially pasta, are quite large.
 
If you can, try to bag a table in the window and watch the world go by.
 
Manchester’s original San Carlo is opposite. See the restaurant's website for more information.
Reasonably-priced pizzas are topped creatively next to Manchester’s Town Hall.
Croma is always my first choice for a quick and tasty pizza. The cocktail list makes it a good option for a pre-night-out meal with friends - I love the signature Croma Martini - but the laid-back atmosphere means that you feel equally at home popping in wearing jeans after a hard day’s shopping.
 
Living in sunny Italy, the cradle of European culture is a dream of every fourth person's in the world. Italian food dishes are really something you wouldn't want to miss. Italian food cooking starts with a breakfast of coffee and pastries immediately after awakening, then goes second breakfast or lunch approximately around noon. Then you may go to an Italian food store and buy something for a solid lunch seven hours later. Spending a day like that you'd feel like an Italian of the past century. Since then a lot of their traditions has changed, most modern people prefer simple Italian food for breakfast. A cup of coffee or cappuccino and pastry or a sandwich will just do, but they do not usually eat dinner later in the afternoon. About eight hours in the evening they have a light supper. Well and do not forget about famous Italian food desserts. You can cook it all yourself or order Italian food online if you'd want to. It’s up to you.
 
Italian food catering is very diverse: food, ingredients, cooking time and even the condiments are radically different in different areas of the country and differ more and more from year to year. 
 
However, the philosophy of food as a reason for friends and relatives to gather at a big table and share a meal in a relaxed atmosphere to stop the crazy rhythm of life at a time remains unchanged as well as a tradition of giving Italian food gifts or an Italian food basket. 
 
Second breakfast on a weekday begins with primo or first course, which is usually a plate of soup, risotto, pasta of any kind. They are served in little bowls, so it is not considered a full meal. During holidays or at restaurants serving some of the first dishes such as risotto, pasta and ravioli, they do not exceed the total amount of bowls. 
 
The first dish is traditionally followed by a second, which usually is fish, meat or egg dish or vegetables. As a rule heavy meat stew is served with boiled, pressed dry spinach, roasted in olive oil with garlic. Portions of the second dishes are also very small, about a quarter of a pound a main dish, side dish and bread portion. In special occasions several dishes are served. Lunch is usually completes with a perfect dessert of fresh fruit and a small cup of espresso. 
 
In general, the food is very balanced: a combination of carbohydrates in the first dish and bread are accompanied with protein in the first and second courses and vitamins and minerals in fruits and vegetables. This all together provide the body with necessary nutrients. Holiday or Sunday dinners when the table is big and a noisy Italian family is at it, the cuisine differs a great variety of dishes. A meal usually is provided with one or more appetizers and completes, except for fruit, with cheese and desserts such as pudding, homemade cakes or purchased in-store cake. And in any case it impossible to imagine any meal without wine.
talian cuisine has developed through centuries of social and political changes, with roots as far back as the 4th century BC. Italian cuisine in itself takes heavy influences, including Etruscan, ancient Greek, ancient Roman, Byzantine, Jewish and Arab cuisines.[1] Significant changes occurred with the discovery of the New World with the introduction of items such as potatoes, tomatoes, bell peppers and maize, now central to the cuisine but not introduced in quantity until the 18th century.[2][3] Italian cuisine is noted for its regional diversity,[4][5][6] abundance of difference in taste, and is known to be one of the most popular in the world,[7] with influences abroad.[8]
Ingredients and dishes vary by region. Many dishes that were once regional, however, have proliferated with variations throughout the country. Cheese and wine are a major part of the cuisine, with many variations and Denominazione di origine controllata (DOC) (regulated appellation) laws. Coffee, specifically espresso, has become important in Italian cuisine.
Me and my 4 friend went to Little Italy on Saturday night. A few of my friends recommended it and demanded I went. Once I was there I was by the bar with a drink in my hand with very friendly staff all around. When we sat down and ordered our food it wasn't long until we were presented with amazing tasting and beautifully presented food. After our 3 courses we danced the night away with great music lovely staff and atmosphere and overall just fab! At the end of the night whilst paying the bill I saw nothing wrong. When I came to write this review and saw what the others wrote I don't know what they were expecting you are in London and it was certainly not over priced considering the great experience I had. I would recommend this to anyone who wants a good memorable night! 
Little Italy, 21 Frith Street, London W1 (020 7734 4737). Meal for two, every second Wednesday of the month, £120
 
It is a cold, wet winter's lunchtime, but inside Little Italy on Soho's Frith Street there is palpable warmth which has nothing to do with central heating. It is the second Wednesday of the month and by tradition – a very new tradition, but a tradition all the same – that's the day the restaurant belongs to Elena Salvoni, as it once used to every day of the week. Elena, tiny, silver-haired, neatly dressed in black as ever, is the great Soho maître d', and has been for seven decades. Yes, seven – she is 90. She is a link to the kind of old Soho that people like me, who are nowhere near old enough to remember it, like to claim nostalgia for. She ran front of house at Café Bleu during the war, and then took over at the famed Bianchi's (on the site of what is now Little Italy),, moved to Escargot for another couple of decades before being given a berth at a restaurant named in her honour, Elena's L'Etoile in Charlotte Street.

Elena has stories like MPs have indiscretions. She looked after Michael Redgrave when he was on leave in the Second World War, brought Ella Fitzgerald's dinner to her dressing room when she was performing at Ronnie Scott's, was friends with the Python boys when they were poor, and remained friends with the likes of Sean Connery when he became rich. She was a part of the old Soho of Maltese hoods and hookers from the East End called Spanish Betty, and drunks who needed looking after. Her 90th birthday last year was celebrated in the press, and though she had stepped back to only overseeing the lunch service, she made it clear she was happy to die in harness. The management, Corus Hotels, decided it was an "appropriate" time for her to retire, which is the kind of thing middle managers do to the English language.

But Soho has a long memory. In her Bianchi's days Elena worked with the grandfather of the family that owns Little Italy (and Bar Italia next door), and when they heard what had happened they asked her to come back to oversee lunch on the second Wednesday of every month. And so she does, in her tidy black two-piece and steel-framed glasses, and her regulars come back as well. The mood is warm, familiar and embracing, though anybody can come and everybody should.

When the space reopened as Little Italy a decade or so back, it was tight and noisy, the walls crammed with black-and-white pictures of crooners, but the food was always good. I used to go there for great rustling plates of frito misto. Though it was never cheap – it still isn't – it always delivered. Since then it has expanded and is now rather plush. Upstairs there are seating areas in studded sea-green leather, and shiny walls tiled in a tiny mosaic of shimmering white and jade.

It's fancy, though the food is far less so. It is a reliable solid Italian that has served a particular louche, British public over the years. There is a lunch menu at £19.50 for three courses, and from that a starter of hot grilled smoked mozzarella oozing across the plate with a cherry tomato and olive salad and anchovy mayonnaise did not feel like the budget option. That said, crisp curls of deep-fried calamari served in a boat made of greaseproof paper was worth the extra expense. Main-course pasta dishes are huge bowls of carbs, cooked so they still have some bite and give, dressed with lots of the advertised ingredients, be it a dense, gamey ragu of wild boar, hunks of lobster or a scarlet sauce of tomatoes cooked down to their essence. An escalope of veal came breaded and served on the bone, with a half of muslin-dressed lemon. None of this is likely to rock you back in your seat. But it will feed you very well indeed.

If you have room and commitment, order their innocent-sounding apple tart, a depraved confection of crunchy amaretti-based crumb, caramel sauce and, for appearance's sake, a little apple, surrounded by crème anglais. It is one of the last indecent experiences in a much-less-filthy Soho. Most of all, bask in genuinely old-fashioned service and the attentions of Elena, who will always make you feel she is pleased to see you. Because she is
Thin-crusted pizza bases are topped imaginatively and sit on the menu alongside salads and a few pasta dishes. I was sceptical about the Inglese pizza (topped with bacon, egg, sausage and Worcester sauce; £6.75) when I first saw it on the menu but friends love it. Other quirky choices include Tandoori Chicken (indulging Mancunians’ love of curry; £7.45) and Chicken Caesar Salad (£7.65). More traditional options such as Margherita and Parma are also on offer for those with more conservative taste.

Despite the imaginative range of options, I am yet to try a pizza that beats my favourite topping of Florentina (fresh spinach, free range egg, olives, garlic, parmesan, mozzarella and tomato; £6.95).

Food is served in stylish surroundings – think crisp white table cloths and brown leather seats – but the atmosphere is laid back.
 
Friendly staff serve pizzas efficiently in this busy restaurant. The speedy service makes this a good choice for a pre-theatre or night out meal.
 
Smack in the centre of Manchester, next to the Town Hall and within walking distance of the main shopping areas, Croma is a great option for a post-shopping or pre-night-out meal.

Pizzas range from £4.95 for a Margherita to around £7.95. House wine is £12.95 a bottle and look out for some great offers such as a free bottle of wine when you dine.

It is not possible to book unless you are part of a group of six or more diners.
 
There are other branches of Croma in south Manchester (Chorlton) and north Manchester (Prestwich) - see the website below for details.
 


big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store. 
Lots of attentive waiting staff
Good range of classic and modern Italian cuisine
A great bar where you can watch the world go by
Too big for romance
This much service and style comes at a (big) price
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. 
And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. 
It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. 
You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. 
The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. 
Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood. 
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. 
Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. 
Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. 
In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon. 
The best addition to the Square Mile in years. 
This is where bankers should be spending their bonuses. 
Rustic Italian with City finesse, the lunchtime menu is better than the evening one. 
Delicious food in this hip environment in a tucked away location. 
Good service and wine. 
More business or special occasion restaurant although there is a large bar area that looks like it might be good after work.
Food is excellent, one the best in London for italian. 
The chef is from Calabria, and the menu reflects the southern Italian influence. 
Excellent starters, but don't bother with ham, as it's an overpriced low quality kind. 
All pastas/risotto are superlative, and inventive. 
Same applies to seconds and desserts. 
Wine list is expensive (high mark up), but varied, and good quality names. only prob: SUPER noisy. 
Def. not romantic.
Off the beaten path but worth the trip. 
Creative menu with a wide variety of well-prepared dishes and some wonderful surprises.
I went at the end of july and was blown away by the food.....the portions are generous and the price excellent.
There was a large party of us (15) so I saw lots of different dishes, they all looked and smelled divine. 
There was a lot of tasting going on! 
I had an amazing steak, huge, it was slightly rare for what i'd ordered. 
The waiter took it away and they cooked me another with no fuss or attitude. 
I am taking my husband there for his 40th birthday and cant wait to sample more of the menu!!! 
I was taken there by a friend, and as an Italian, I was quite offended by the name, it's not funny and it's not clever. 
But most importantly, the food was awful! 
How can they call that food Italian? 
Italian food is about fresh quality ingredients, the food I was served tasted boring and ready-made. This must be the worst place in the Docklands, rude staff, boring food (you could almost hear the microwave bells from the kitchen) and over priced. 
Never again!
La Figa 
Been there few times now & each time the waiters go out their way to accommodate me and my wife and the baby. 
Definitely would recommend it to any one with your family or with out best italian food in london in my opinion....tasty,delicious,generous,excellent friendly service....well done...i coould eat there everyday...well done boys...
I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. 
The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. 
Never again!
I eat at la figa regularly......
i love it, it is my favorite place to eat, the Pollo la figa is to die for and the best roast potatoes i have ever had.
Love this place, used to always go il bordello until i found this one.
cant understand how anyone cannot like it. 
We enjoyed a wonderfully delicious dinner while visiting London. 
Food was exceptional and portions large. 
Although wait staff was initially unsure of our questions they ended up providing the perfect amount of hospitality and friendliness.
 I wish this restaurant was still a best kept secret but the word is out. 
It is a warm family run Italian with great food, generous portions and a laid back environment that has not compromised on its excellent service. 
It is popular with families so if you are allergic to children or other people having a great time then this may not be your cup of tea. 
Dressy young couples on dates-tick.
Businessman working the expense account-tick. 
Mummies and Daddies frumpy and grumpy or yummy-tick. 
Dress up or down you'll fit in. 
Modern decor but spacious and the chairs are comfortable (unlike it's sister Il Bordello in Wapping). Good parking availability and near DLR. 
Wheelchair accessible. 
They quickly get to know you and your likes and dislikes and Chef has always been very accommodating about little changes. 
They don't include service in the bill ! 
They currently do take-away and i'll be in heaven if they ever start delivery as well. 
The Fillet Dolcelatte is a wonderful way to clot the arteries and not care. 
The pizzas are so good you will eat the crusts too. 
The pasta is always perfectly al dante and smothered in sauce. 
Try the linguine sea scallops in aurora sauce- gorgeous. 
But leave the spaghetti meatballs for me!
Great food on a special occassion. 
Went to get a gluten free choice and they certainly succeeded in that.
People are made to feel welcome and food to match
We had a great experience here. 
The food was great, the staff was very friendly. 
It was one of our best dinners in Scotland.
Fabulous restaurant and fabulous family. 
It is always a pleasure to go to the Vittoria, even just for a cup of delicious creamy cappuccino and a cannoli siciliani.
Love that place. 
Absolutely recommended.
The food in this restaurant is just superb and the staff are very professional and know how to look after you. 
I thoroughly enjoyed my meal here and will be back soon!
We visited this Restaurant mid week, so it was'nt busy and it looked very nice. 
The service was very good and the staff were nice. 
We chose a set meal costing about £17.00 and the starter and main course were fine, the desserts are another story! 
My daughter ordered a dessert not on the set menu and it looked lovely when it came but when she started to eat it it was actually mouldy! 
Our first night in Edinburgh was not a good one!
A few times recently when people have asked about restaurants in Edinburgh I have recommended Ti Amo. 
My pal and I were there last night and after our fairly average experience I don't feel so enthusiastic about it any more. 
When we arrived at just after 8 on a Saturday evening the place was almost empty.
 It was freezing cold in the whole place which was because a door at the end of the corridor to the loos was open to the outside. 
Yes we could have asked for it to be shut but didn't notice until we were almost leaving.
The food was alright but nothing special as I remember it from previous visits. 
Even although the place was almost empty they mislaid a note of what we had to eat and drink and had to come and ask before they brought the bill. 
Then they tried to charge me for a carafe of wine instead of a glass which I think was an honest mistake. 
If it had been a little busier and a hell of a lot warmer things would have been greatly improved but even then I don't feel it is as good as it used to be.
 So while I wouldn't go as far as to say avoid at all costs neither wil I be recommending it in future
La Partenope in Dalry Road seems to be getting good reviews. 
I haven't been myself but, if you're into Italian then it might be worth checking. 
The only problem really is the location - there's nothing else nearby if you wanted to go for a post prandial refreshment.
La Piazza in Shadwick Place is basically a pizza and pasta joint but it's a cut above and I've found it to be most acceptable on the occasions I've been there. 
In fact, on one visit I fancied something that wasn't on the menu and they were quite happy to make it for me.
best pizza in edinburgh from its wood fire oven with unusual and trad toppings. Just had another superb meal there. gluten free & cheaper carry out available.The pizza from La Favorita has a good reputation, and rightly so! I first ordered here at the beginning of the year, wanting pizza, but fed up with the massively overpriced offerings of the three main pizza delivery chains. I have since ordered from them at least 5 more times!

Unlike it's competitors this place produced a delicious and authentic pizza with gourmet toppings for about 30% cheaper. The base was light and crispy with just the right amount of cheese and sauce to top it. Each of the different toppings I have ordered have been full of flavour and fresh.

It's not just their pizzas that are good either. From what I've tried of their starters and desserts I have been thoroughly impressed: The mushroom bruschetta, although a little soggy, were bursting with rich nutty flavour and the ribs were tender and delicious in a tangy homemade sauce. Their mango cheesecake and toffee puddings were also particularly tasty.

To sumarise: restaurant quality takeaway food for a reasonable price!As someone who has lived in Edinburgh for a long time, who loves Italian food, and has been to Italy a lot, I can honestly say this place has the best pizza I have ever tasted! Beautifully cooked, incredible fresh toppings, and a huge selection! The pizzas are huge though, and I can never finish a whole one, but luckily the wonderful waiters are always more than happy to pop it into a box for you to take away and have later! The starters and puddings are also brilliant! Great selection of ice cream - would recommend the apple sorbet in particular!! The service is fantastic, the waiters are very attentive and great fun! Would recommend this place for any occasion - fancy romantic meal, family dinners, going out with friends, special occasions - they have it all here! Although I live at the other end of Edinburgh, it is definitely worth a trip down here!Visited La Favourita in December for dinner with my wife in December. The food was of a decent standard but perhaps a little overpriced for what you get. The drinks are pricey, we were a bit shocked when the bill came and you saw how much they were charging for a draught beer and house wine. 
The pizzas are ok but they need to put more cheese on them. They are a bit tight with the cheese and the chicken was not breast chicken. When I ordered the chicken pizza I presumed that it would be tasty breast chicken, not dark leg meat. 
The tables are really close together and therefore the diners at the tables near you can hear every word you say.It is always a pleasure to visit this restaurant. The staff is friendly but not too much and the food is tasty, deliciously plated and the portions are quite generous.
Very recommended.I adore the vittoria chain and this restaurant is the same brilliant service and quality you would expect, at the moment there is 50% off which makes it even more appealing.

I have tried the risotto, steak and several brilliant starters including the meat platter, prices are normally reasonable and I cannot emphasis enough how fantastic the service and quality of food
Most important thigs first; if you love pizza, then you will probably love Favorita. They have a log fire oven (from the days this was a Caprice Pizzeria restaurant) that makes the pizza base taste delicious. There are lots of interesting and tasty toppings to choose from, the portions are very generous (big pizza and lots of toppings), and in my experience they're very happy to let you ask for custom combinations. Pizza prices are around the £10, so on the money for a good Italian restaurant.

As for the rest... this is everything you'd expect of a good italian restaurant - a packed menu, friendly and efficient staff, and a casual vibe . We went on a Saturday night, and it is was busy with groups and couples having a good night out - the place got quite loud in fact, so if you're after a romantic night out, Favorita on Saturday night probably isn't the place! The volume was never a problem though - rather, it added to the atmosphere.

We shared a selection of starters, all had pizza for mains, and ice cream for dessert. My fussy sister managed to ask for something complicated during each course, but our patient waiting staff were obliging. They actually made a little mistake with her complicated dessert request, but they changed it immediately without question - I mention it not as a negative, but as an example of good customer service, despite a very busy restaurant.My only real criticism is that the decor isn't anything to write home about - clean and modern , but lacking character.

This is a 4 out of 5 Italian restaurant pushed up to 5 out of 5 thanks to the amazing pizza.
We have been going to this place since 1971 when it was called the Caprice Pizzarama. Owned and run by Anthony ( Tony ) Alongi and family. As we dined there over a period of years we watched the place grow from one to four adjacent shops.
The secret to sucess was good service and good, home made, Italian food and, mostly, one of the very few real wood fired pizza ovens in Scotland. 
I grew up in the Italian area of The Bronx, New York in the 1950's and regard myself as a bit of a Pizza Connosueir.
Since Tony called it a day the place changed hands a few times and basically went downhill. It was no longer worth our 20 mile drive to eat there.
After a while it became La Favorita. A total revamp followed. The wood fired oven has remained throughout, thank God. We started going back.
Been going to La Favorita for a few years now. We were there today for lunch. Nice place as expected. First Class Service as expected and Prices as expected.
Sadly the Pizza's have gone downhill bigtime slowly over a period of the last two years. The pizza although passable by UK standards has now fallen way way way below what it used to be. The base was right, the cheese was not bad but the tomato had a funny ( curry ) taste. The salad was superb with a fab dressing.
Sadly we have decided we won't go back.This has got to be the best place in Edinburgh for delicious pizzas. Having been twice and loved it equally on both occasions, I would highly recommend. Not only is the service, atmosphere, food and cocktails all great but to top it off you can take your pizza away with you if you don't finish it! I can't remember exactly what this pizza is called but I think its one of the specials, with slices of steak, rocket and a balsamic glaze- its to die for! Perfect restaurant for all.Our B & B hostess recommended La Favorita and since it was within walking distance we decided to give it a try. How delightful the whole evening was! Even though we had a group of 8, they got us seated together in a short time. The staff were all most attentive, helpful with menu suggestions, and seemed to really enjoy making sure we were having a good time while dining with them. And the food was delicious!Edinburgh has many excellent Italian restaurants - Favorita is my personal favourite as a 'family' restaurant - the service is excellent, the food authentic and excellent quality and reasonably pricesd compared with the national pseudo Italian chains (zizzi and Pizza express spring to mind). Worth realising that the Italian culture here goes beyond the food - it is a family place and family is important - therefore a destination for a romantic meal it is not - a place to while away an afternoon with friends and family where the kids areengaged and the wineis excellent it certainly is - my first choice for lunch att he weekends. 10/10My wife, my parents and I enjoyed an excellent meal at La Concha. This is now very much on our list of favourite restaurants in Edinburgh. Note the opening times carefully as the restaurant is not open every day.Although we had to wait for an 8.30 reservation the food and service at this very friendly family-run restaurant justified the wait. The menu is small, but all the courses were excellent. We left warm and full after an enjoyable evening.Definitely worth a visit if you enjoy superbly cooked food.
Excellent service in a warm welcoming atmosphere.My partner and I have visited many restaurants in Edinburgh and Stockbridge and this is the best. Great food, excellent service and very romantic. The price is fantastic value. I would choose to go there whenever going out for a meal!We have visited this restaurant on many occasions and have always found the food and service to be excellent. Highly recommended.Visited for dinner a few nights ago with my partner for my birthday.
From the moment we walked in it was absolutely on the money. The service was excellent, and so friendly, and the food rivalled some of the best Italian I've ever eaten. 
Prices were absolutely fine for Edinburgh standards - worth every penny.

Thoroughly recommend!went on-spec after reading other tripadvisor reports. why this well run,spotlessly clean restaurant not to mention the lovely food is not better known is a mystery. The chef / owner takes personnal repsonsibility for the lovely food and his Italian waitress presents and serves the food without any fuss at all.
big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store. 
Lots of attentive waiting staff
Good range of classic and modern Italian cuisine
A great bar where you can watch the world go by
Too big for romance
This much service and style comes at a (big) price
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. 
And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. 
It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. 
You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. 
The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. 
Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood. 
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. 
Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. 
Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. 
In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon. 
The best addition to the Square Mile in years. 
This is where bankers should be spending their bonuses. 
Rustic Italian with City finesse, the lunchtime menu is better than the evening one. 
Delicious food in this hip environment in a tucked away location. 
Good service and wine. 
More business or special occasion restaurant although there is a large bar area that looks like it might be good after work.
Food is excellent, one the best in London for italian. 
The chef is from Calabria, and the menu reflects the southern Italian influence. 
Excellent starters, but don't bother with ham, as it's an overpriced low quality kind. 
All pastas/risotto are superlative, and inventive. 
Same applies to seconds and desserts. 
Wine list is expensive (high mark up), but varied, and good quality names. only prob: SUPER noisy. 
Def. not romantic.
Off the beaten path but worth the trip. 
Creative menu with a wide variety of well-prepared dishes and some wonderful surprises.
I went at the end of july and was blown away by the food.....the portions are generous and the price excellent.
There was a large party of us (15) so I saw lots of different dishes, they all looked and smelled divine. 
There was a lot of tasting going on! 
I had an amazing steak, huge, it was slightly rare for what i'd ordered. 
The waiter took it away and they cooked me another with no fuss or attitude. 
I am taking my husband there for his 40th birthday and cant wait to sample more of the menu!!! 
I was taken there by a friend, and as an Italian, I was quite offended by the name, it's not funny and it's not clever. 
But most importantly, the food was awful! 
How can they call that food Italian? 
Italian food is about fresh quality ingredients, the food I was served tasted boring and ready-made. This must be the worst place in the Docklands, rude staff, boring food (you could almost hear the microwave bells from the kitchen) and over priced. 
Never again!
La Figa 
Been there few times now & each time the waiters go out their way to accommodate me and my wife and the baby. 
Definitely would recommend it to any one with your family or with out best italian food in london in my opinion....tasty,delicious,generous,excellent friendly service....well done...i coould eat there everyday...well done boys...
I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. 
The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. 
Never again!
I eat at la figa regularly......
i love it, it is my favorite place to eat, the Pollo la figa is to die for and the best roast potatoes i have ever had.
Love this place, used to always go il bordello until i found this one.
cant understand how anyone cannot like it. 
We enjoyed a wonderfully delicious dinner while visiting London. 
Food was exceptional and portions large. 
Although wait staff was initially unsure of our questions they ended up providing the perfect amount of hospitality and friendliness.
 I wish this restaurant was still a best kept secret but the word is out. 
It is a warm family run Italian with great food, generous portions and a laid back environment that has not compromised on its excellent service. 
It is popular with families so if you are allergic to children or other people having a great time then this may not be your cup of tea. 
Dressy young couples on dates-tick.
Businessman working the expense account-tick. 
Mummies and Daddies frumpy and grumpy or yummy-tick. 
Dress up or down you'll fit in. 
Modern decor but spacious and the chairs are comfortable (unlike it's sister Il Bordello in Wapping). Good parking availability and near DLR. 
Wheelchair accessible. 
They quickly get to know you and your likes and dislikes and Chef has always been very accommodating about little changes. 
They don't include service in the bill ! 
They currently do take-away and i'll be in heaven if they ever start delivery as well. 
The Fillet Dolcelatte is a wonderful way to clot the arteries and not care. 
The pizzas are so good you will eat the crusts too. 
The pasta is always perfectly al dante and smothered in sauce. 
Try the linguine sea scallops in aurora sauce- gorgeous. 
But leave the spaghetti meatballs for me!
Great food on a special occassion. 
Went to get a gluten free choice and they certainly succeeded in that.
People are made to feel welcome and food to match
We had a great experience here. 
The food was great, the staff was very friendly. 
It was one of our best dinners in Scotland.
Fabulous restaurant and fabulous family. 
It is always a pleasure to go to the Vittoria, even just for a cup of delicious creamy cappuccino and a cannoli siciliani.
Love that place. 
Absolutely recommended.
The food in this restaurant is just superb and the staff are very professional and know how to look after you. 
I thoroughly enjoyed my meal here and will be back soon!
We visited this Restaurant mid week, so it was'nt busy and it looked very nice. 
The service was very good and the staff were nice. 
We chose a set meal costing about £17.00 and the starter and main course were fine, the desserts are another story! 
My daughter ordered a dessert not on the set menu and it looked lovely when it came but when she started to eat it it was actually mouldy! 
Our first night in Edinburgh was not a good one!
A few times recently when people have asked about restaurants in Edinburgh I have recommended Ti Amo. 
My pal and I were there last night and after our fairly average experience I don't feel so enthusiastic about it any more. 
When we arrived at just after 8 on a Saturday evening the place was almost empty.
 It was freezing cold in the whole place which was because a door at the end of the corridor to the loos was open to the outside. 
Yes we could have asked for it to be shut but didn't notice until we were almost leaving.
The food was alright but nothing special as I remember it from previous visits. 
Even although the place was almost empty they mislaid a note of what we had to eat and drink and had to come and ask before they brought the bill. 
Then they tried to charge me for a carafe of wine instead of a glass which I think was an honest mistake. 
If it had been a little busier and a hell of a lot warmer things would have been greatly improved but even then I don't feel it is as good as it used to be.
 So while I wouldn't go as far as to say avoid at all costs neither wil I be recommending it in future
La Partenope in Dalry Road seems to be getting good reviews. 
I haven't been myself but, if you're into Italian then it might be worth checking. 
The only problem really is the location - there's nothing else nearby if you wanted to go for a post prandial refreshment.
La Piazza in Shadwick Place is basically a pizza and pasta joint but it's a cut above and I've found it to be most acceptable on the occasions I've been there. 
In fact, on one visit I fancied something that wasn't on the menu and they were quite happy to make it for me.
Good thing I didn't read these reviews before we went in May 2010, or we would have missed a delightful experience at Roccos. We had the tutti mare and the Carbonara pasta, and the two glasses of wine were terrific, and prices didn't seem out of the norm for a big city in Europe (people in St. Louis, where the Italian food is as good as anywhere in the US we've been, would choke on the prices...but, hey, that's Europe!).

Maybe people were expecting authentic Italian here, though don't know why anyone would order lasagna or pizza at an Italian restaurant, when you can make those just as well at home. We've never been to Italy, so we don't know how this food compares; it compares well to Italian food served in the US, though.If you find yourself looking at the menu of this place then glance inside and see its empty there,s good reason.. Its appaling. Turn around and head back to one of the chain restaurants down the road, They are more authentic italian and at least you know what you will get. Food here was over cooked so also tasted terrible but was fresh straight from the freezer. Service was throw the food at you and scowl not talk. Makes a burger van seem like a michelin star experience...Lasagne tasted very poor, worse than supermarket "heat at home". Compulsory service charge added. Wine extremely poor and overpriced. I would not go to this restaurant, and wished I had read the reviews first. Clearly catering for the one time only visitor and resting on it's location to get custom with no need of any reputation. Seemed to have some regulars though! Do not go to this restaurant. 0*We went as part of a hen weekend package and everyone including another hen do thought it was disgusting. We obviously didnt pay as it was part of the package but there is no way I would ever pay to eat here. The garlic bread was soggy and tasteless, my "spaghetti Bolognaise" was worse than dog food and it always bothers me when an "Italian" restaurant offers dehydrated Parmesan instead of fresh. I could also not believe how busy it was but this must be due to targetting tourists who havn't eaten there before. There is no excuse for the non existent level of quality here at all.Top prices for disgusting food. We ordered garlic pizza as a starter - this was like warm cardboard with no garlic. One of our main courses was lasagne which was not as good as a supermarket special - there was no evidence of meat and the sauce was worse than the packet type. Our second main course was a fillet steak to be cooked rare. The steak was a cremated minute steak that looked as though it had been beaten into the bargain. We sent this back and 20 minutes later were served another cremated steak that tasted like braising steak. This also went back. We gave up then and asked for the bill and to our disgust the steak at £22 plus £3 for the sauce had been added to the bill. We refused to pay for the steak and the waitress brought the manager. He said there was nothing wrong with the steak and that we should pay half the cost. He was very rude and arrogant and didn't offer an apology or an alternative dish. He then proceeded to bring out a raw steak (sealed in a food bag!) telling us that was the steak we had ordered. The steak was 4 times the size of the two served to us - easy to see where the profit was made. We still refused to pay and the manager stormed away leaving an embarrassed waitress to deal with the situation. We finally got the bill minus the cost of the "steak" and the sauce. Disgusting to think that a very poor cafe can trade under the guise of a restaurant and give Italian food such a bad name.
I recently visited Al Dente with my partner, we were both delighted with the quality of food and service. It is a restaurant which I have passed on many occasions. We are both looking forward to returning as soon as possible. Would recommend Al Dente to everyone in the Leith area looking for authentic good quality Italian food at a good price.
I was going to look up Al Dente in Trip Advisor, possibly expecting it to be near the middle on the assumption that no one would know about it. Turns out it was deservedly highly placed. My girlfriend and I literally stumbled across it as we walked back from Calton Hill to Leith and were looking for a bite to eat. We thought we'd have to settle for a standard take away but then we saw this place. 

Easter Road is not a street in Edinburgh famed for it's cuisine or restaurant culture which is why I found this place all the more special. I thought I had found a wee place that no one else knew about. It has that atmosphere as well, with very attentive, friendly but not overbearing staff. It is the sort of place that one could while away an evening very easily. 

The food was superb: I had rabbit. possibly the tenderest rabbit I have ever tasted. 
The service was faultless: as I said, attentive and friendly without being overbearing.
The price was good (for Edinburgh): 3 courses & coffee x 2 for £45 ish total.

We have already raved about this place to everyone we know, so thought it high time we raved about it to people we don't know as well
Since I discovered this restaurant about a year ago with my partner I haven't stop coming with friends and family as well. It is small and elegant with a great Italian atmosphere and where the host Graziano just makes you feel welcome and relaxed from minute 1 you come in- I haven't seen many restaurants like this around. I always go for seafood when I come here as I know it is always fresh although during the 2 theme nigths I attended (highly recommended) I had some beautiful meet dishes too. Antonelo is an excellent chef, usually comes out to say hi an check all is in order and Gerardo is always very attentive. These guys know how to run a restaurant- hard work, extra friendliness and quality food! Just not to be missed!!! DC London
My friend and I were here recently (November 2010) and liked this place as it was different to other Itlaina restaurants. There was a cosy friendly atmosphere and te service was very nice and friendly. The food was excellent. We'll be going back
Like a previous reviewer, we also used a voucher for our meal with trepidation after reading some of the other reviews. However fears unfounded as the food and service were very good. We will be returning as I really want a plate of the seafood starter my partner had which was excellent. The pork belly was excellent as well. Looking forward to next visit.We visited last night with a certain amount of trepidation after seeing some of the recent reviews as we also had booked under the Groupon deal.This really was unfounded as we had one of our best meals EVER ! Yes the food and service really was that good right from the complimentary bread through to the excellent house wine by the glass.We had the gnocci and mixed seafood for starters and the chicken and bream dishes as mains and all four dishes were gorgeous.The only quibble we had was that we had to rush off to a concert and could not linger over desert and coffee.
We will definitely be back ASAP despite this restaurant being on the wrong (Hibs part of town).
Please visit this restaurant if you like authentic, beautifully cooked, Italian food. Absolutely superb. Staff were very friendly and there was a cosy and comfortable feel about the restaurant.On an overnight stay in Edinburgh we had lost our way whilst seeking a restaurant but stumbled upon Al Dente. A most propitious stumble. The menu was interesting and varied; avoiding the hacknied 'Italian' fare. Food quality was superb and the atmosphere very comfortable. Graziano Spano was the perfect host.
After reading reviews from other Groupon users, it was with some slight trepidation that we went along to Al Dente on a Monday night. However, we found it to be the opposite of what other people had experienced. We were given a basket of lovely warm bread to eat as we looked through the menu. To be honest, as we are both vegetarian we only looked at the meat-free stuff so can't comment on the rest of the meals but ours were very tasty. I can recommend the gnocchi in a cheese sauce, topped with caramelised leeks, and a there was a huge amount of it too. I wasn't going to have a dessert but after seeing they had a walnut and honey tart with ice cream, I couldn't resist. it was wonderful. As my husband is a cheese fan he went for the italian cheeses and said they were one of the best he had ever had. The service was fine, there was just the one waiter working that night and he managed to keep everyone happy. We will definitely be going back to this restaurant.Unlike other Groupon reviewers who didn't seem to have clue about good food we were pleasantly surprised. We eat out a lot but like many people have favourite restaurants we stick to. Groupon was a way for us to maybe venture further. We had no expectatations, if didn't come up to scratch of where we usually eat it didn't matter as was a bargain price. 
We were very pleasantly suprised though at the high standards if the meal. 
I am addicted to cheese so chose the mozzarella starter from the specials board which my husband had what I initially was going to have, saute de pesce which was mixed seafood. The cheese was bought and made locally and each different mozzarella was gorgeous BUT not as amazing as the seafood of which my poor husband only had half due to me helping myself. The squid so easy to get tough was soft the prawns fair sized and tasty and the sauce JUST seasoned right.
My husband had the belly pork and the skin was just crispy and the meat melted in the mouth. This though was nothing to compare to the coniglio in porchetta. I was worried either one if the meat would be too strong. Rabbit can be but also salami can take over. Neither on this occasion, the terrine of meat in the medallions all complemented each other the pancetta giving it the subtle almost cream like taste. 
Both if us had mash potatoes which was was lovely using again the best of ingredients and plenty of butter a truly luxurious puree, not your average dried milky glutenous rubbish here. The vegetables just the right amount and again as everything else cooked to perfection 

We didn't have dessert as we both don't really have sweet tooths so always reluctant to try plus we usually only have two courses. 

The only other thing I have to comment on was the service. The waiter was well informed, and recommended drinks that suited us both and the chef as well as being excellent chef was friendly a truly amazing personality. 

My only negative was for designated drivers soft drinks were unbelievably expensive a small glass of coke was £2. My recommended Merlot though was smooth and buttery. 

We WILL be going back, we WILL be recommending and here I thoroughly recommend this hidden Edinburgh treasure. Sp thank you Groupon and thank you Al Dente
A Long Way Out
I visited this restaurant on our weekend break on the strength of trip advisor reviews. Whilst food and service were ok, the restaurant is very quiet and at ten pounds each way from town in a taxi, its not really worth the excursion.
Al Dente is a little gem hidden in Edinburgh, well worth a visit, the food, service and atmosphere is first class, the staff couldnt do enough for you. We got a taxi to the restaurant from centre of town only cost about £4.00. Will be back :)
Like other recent reviewers who went with a 'Groupon' we were very disappointed. We were sat right beside the door on a cold and wet night so had a very uncomfortable night with a constant cold draft . There was another table next to ours further into the restaurant empty all the time we were there but we were not offered this. No bread or oil offered [I presume because we were there on the coupon as others who were not there with a coupon were given it] The starter of sardines with pine nuts was in fact only one small sardine split in two with a thin slice of orange and only a few pine nuts. I have been given larger 'Tasters' in other restaurants the portion was so small. The Pork Belly as main course served with 4 green beans and a table spoon of sloppy potato was so over salted it was verging on the inedible . The walnut torte as sweet was seriously lacking in walnuts. Along with the Clams being off, The Swordfish being off, The Parfait being off , The first three wines we selected being off this was not a good dining experience and for early dining on a Saturday evening was not good practise. The only redeeming factor was the wine was quite nice, but a pity it cost 5p more than charged at a Michelin starred restaurant where I ate the week before. 
If joining the 'Groupon Scheme' was to bring in new customers it does not work when you treat diners using coupons as second class citizens serving tiny portions of poor quality food but charging Michelin Star prices.
My partner and I have lived round the corner from this restaurant for 6 years. We had never been in but tried it when we received a voucher through the online site Groupon. I was welcomed by a very nice waiter-who was faultless and very attentive. However, the second waiter was rude and offensive. 

We felt as though because we had used a voucher we were offered a sub-standard service. We did not receive bread when other tables did and my partner was told there was no mussels left for his seafood pasta. Having been offered more prawns to account for this, there were only four in the dish. 

Instead of asking whether we wanted dessert the rude waiter grumbled 'do you want coffee?'. We ordered dessert and having ordered chocolate parfait I was surprised to find what looked and tasted like a Tesco's mini muffin arrive. Not wanting to insult the kitchen staff I did not say anything and left half of this. 

The final straw was when paying (and tipping!!) the rude waiter literally grabbed the cheque and cash out of my partners hand as he was laying this on the table almost snapping his hand in the bill folder. This was so rude we had to laugh to ourselves as he walked off. 

I have always used Trip Advisor when eating/travelling but never felt compelled to review anywhere until now. However the treatment we had tonight has given me the motivation to do so. The food was fine (apart from the parfait muffin) but due to the quality of service I would say stay away!We read about Al Dente from Trip Advisor in May on a visit from Hong Kong to Edinburgh and visited. My wife, daughter and I had a superb meal on this first trip and thought it was the best Italian restaurant in its class in UK that we have tried.
We loved it so much that I booked again (from HK) 6 weeks in advance of our next visit to Edinburgh. This time we invited a group of friends who hailed from London and Hong Kong (8). We asked the staff to select a meal that we could share (HK style) and we were treated to fantastic food and wine all at reasonable prices. Needless to say the evening went on into the wee small hours and my guests were raving about Al Dente. Prior to continuing on to HK we had another visit and again had a wonderful meal. We are regular visitors to Eddinburgh and on each trip Al Dente will be top of our restaurant visits.
Having spent several holidays in different parts of Italy we were delighted to discover this little Italian gem not too far from the centre of the town. The waiter/owner, Graziano, makes you feel very welcome and we could not fault the service, the quality of the food or the cleanliness of the place. We also met Graziano’s lovely wife and charming little daughter.

In true Italian style we were giving a basket of bread and oils to dip in while we waited for our food to be freshly cooked. I had a mixed seafood starter and my husband cleared his plate of sardines stuffed with pine nuts - and never found any bones. For mains we both chose the veal with parma ham which came artistically presented with a good variety of finely cut vegetables, including my favourite, tempura courgette.

All washed down with a nice chilled bottle of Frascati. No room for dessert but had coffee instead. We had a voucher but would have happily paid full price for this meal and will certainly be back again.
We chose to dine at Al Dente as we received a voucher and i tend to like local Italians. To find a diamond you need to trawl through the rough - well this was the rough! 

We'd walked quite a way to get there, so before I looked at the menu I fancied a glass of wine and a bowl of olives or bread. This wasnt an option - we had to order the drinks at the same time as the food, and there would be no food before the starter, I was sternly told. It was immediately apparant many people had the same voucher as me, and table turning was the main priority of the evening. 

We ordered a bottle of white treibanna - reasonanly priced and easy drinking. We then got starters - both seafood dishes. Mine was simple but the fish was cooked quite well and the sauce was nicer than it looked. However there was endless bits of gristle and bone which made the meal more of a chore then a pleasure. My partner could not even touch his sardines for fear of choking.

The main course - the speciality rabbit rish - was laughingly poor. The smell when it came over set the tone, it really couldnt be described as anything but feet. The rabbit was stuffed with chorizo and other spicy meats but it was inedible. The meat was tough and fatty and the spicy sausages so strong and clashed with the rabbit. The mashed potato was just slop and how they burnt carrots I shall never know. It has been a long time since I have not managed to finish a meal - I could barely start this one.
We went there with our ten year old son on the advice of the local bar tender, and had an excellent meal, one of the best we have had at Edinburgh. Takes about a twenty to thirty minute walk (we did it in the rain) from the center of Edinburgh where most tourists hang out. There was some construction going on outside the building, but the restaurant is open and perfectly quiet and cozy. Great service, efficient and friendly without being too friendly. Great food and wine, not overly pretentious but very fresh and good, at a very decent price. And if this still doesn't convince you, while we ate there, we watched two local Italian families come in for a meal. Plainly the native Italians in Edinburgh think it is the place to go.
We chanced to be staying in some serviced flats (an excellent TripAdvisor recommendation) in the Fountainbridge area of Edinburgh. We love Italian food (so sad that Tinelli's closed) and looked on TripAdvisor for some restaurant recommendations in the near vicinity. How glad I am that we did because we found ITRI! 
Having been to an afternoon matinee performance of Arthur Miller's View From The Bridge, our appetites had been whetted for some good Italian food. We were not disappointed. The quality of the food was excellent - I had a delicate cauliflower soup followed by swordfish with a light, mint and lemon juice dressing. My husband had mozarella stuffed aubergine followed by a hearty dish of gnocchi, porcini and Italian sausage. Wines were good too. Prices were moderate.
Service was courteous and unobtrusive. The owner was good humoured and welcoming. He made a point of speaking to his all customers- many of whom were clearly regulars. The impression given was of unflustered organisation and management even though the restaurant was busy when we entered at eight o'clock on a Saturday night.
Well worth making the effort to find this place. Long may it flourish.Just back from a fab meal here. Felt relaxed atmosphere, starters of tagliatelle with red pepper and goats cheese and bruchetta, mixed fish (small) and sea bass, both lovely. Service was great too.
Ambience and service was good but the food was little bit disappointing. I booked a table for my son and I after his graduation as we are two Italian foodies!! I had read the reviews and was really looking forward to it. The waiter was excellent and the ambience is great. My son ordered the carbonara and it was extremely salty and my sea bass was very oily and tasteless. I hope I hit it on a bad day!!!e have been there several times now and tried many things on the menu - and have never been disappointed. The owners work really hard to continue making the dining a good experience - seafood starter is fantastic, pastas great and their grilled steak is just delicious...to name but a few items off the menu.
I have eaten in Italian restaurants from the west coast of America to the far extremes of Europe, including all over Italy, and I can safely say this place is easily my favourite.

Fresh ingredients, simply prepared and beautifully presented. How they manage to get so much flavour into their dishes, I have no idea?

The food is very reasonably priced and the service is friendly.

Well worth a trip off the beaten Edinburgh track.

Highly recommended!Please people - if you like Italian food, go here!! It's just so much better than most of the others. Good ingredients. Friendly Italian style service without being too OTT. Because it's a bit off the beaten track it's not always as busy as it deserves to be. So please please please go and eat there, to help make sure it's still there next time I want to go myself!We went there with my ten year old son, who liked it as well. Great atmosphere, good food, good prices. Fresh ingredients. The service was really good as well. Because this is a little bit away from the center of town, if you are there during the crush of the festival, this is a good way to get away from it without sacrificing quality. In fact, this was one of the best meals we had in Edinburgh, at a lot less cost than most.
My husband and I went there for dinner. He had the bean soup and I had bruschetta for starters. Both were delicious. He had a chicken dish and I had a fish dish for our mains. Again, wonderful food with great flavors. The house wine was also nice. A great experience.
When recently visiting Edinburgh we went to this restaurant the first night for our evening meal and it was lovely.
To start I had a selection of Italian meats and then lasagne, which were both delicious and good value for money in terms of how much you got. My mother got the ITRI pasta to start and ITRI chicken for her main, both of which she enjoyed a lot. We were so full we couldn't manage dessert!
The waiter was very nice that was serving us and very attentive. Service was quick. 
There were a lot of local Italian people in when we were, which is a good sign. The location of the restaurant is slightly out of the way, but this is well worth a visit.We went to ITRI last night.
This is a superb little italian restaurant with great service and absolutely excellent food. 
We found them on the eating and drinking guide magazine. We were craving simple, authentic italian food and that's what we got! 
We had the seafood linguine and the home made ravioli (that really were home made). Both were amazing - the linguine was especially delicious. 
Not only is the food great but the price is also reasonable. Definitely check this place out when in Edinburgh!My wife and I love everything Italian - the food, the country, their opera and the language, so on a three day visit to Edinburgh to attend a conference at nearby Napier University's Craiglockhart campus, we looked for an Italian restaurant and found ITRI. 

We were very satisfied with our choice. The staff were very welcoming and helpful. They kindly tolerated and encouraged me when I attempted to converse with them in Italian. We ate early at 6pm so it was not surprisingly very quiet with only a few other diners while we were there.

We were both hoping for a particular pasta dish that didn't appear on the menu but when I asked for it (still in Italian) they were very happy to do it anyway for us. We had the Italian Antipasti to start - a typical selection of italian meats and salamis. Excellent and authentic spaghetti carbonara followed, followed by delicious Italian ice-cream. 

During our meal, a party of local Italians came in for a meal - surely a good sign.

My wife uses a wheelchair but they gave us a suitable table - easily accessible from the entrance and positioning so that her rear wheels weren't obstructing the gangway as can sometimes happen in small restaurants. The entrance is not ideal for wheelchairs as there is a small step, but she can walk short distances and manage a few steps, so this was no problem for us. There seemed to be a fair amount of on-street parking space in the vicinity - we managed to park right in front of the restaurant.

Overall, a small friendly and authentically Italian restaurant which we would happily recommend.
Food usually outstanding, but they seem to struggle if things get busy.
The food isn't going to wow trendies but it's some of the most authentic and genuinely pleasing Italian grub I've had outside Italy. And the service is just brilliant. Definitely makes you want to come back. Really. Try it. Tell your friends. Make it your regular local. It's that sort of place and deserves to be better known
The pizza from La Favorita has a good reputation, and rightly so! I first ordered here at the beginning of the year, wanting pizza, but fed up with the massively overpriced offerings of the three main pizza delivery chains. I have since ordered from them at least 5 more times!

Unlike it's competitors this place produced a delicious and authentic pizza with gourmet toppings for about 30% cheaper. The base was light and crispy with just the right amount of cheese and sauce to top it. Each of the different toppings I have ordered have been full of flavour and fresh.

It's not just their pizzas that are good either. From what I've tried of their starters and desserts I have been thoroughly impressed: The mushroom bruschetta, although a little soggy, were bursting with rich nutty flavour and the ribs were tender and delicious in a tangy homemade sauce. Their mango cheesecake and toffee puddings were also particularly tasty.

To sumarise: restaurant quality takeaway food for a reasonable price!
As someone who has lived in Edinburgh for a long time, who loves Italian food, and has been to Italy a lot, I can honestly say this place has the best pizza I have ever tasted! Beautifully cooked, incredible fresh toppings, and a huge selection! The pizzas are huge though, and I can never finish a whole one, but luckily the wonderful waiters are always more than happy to pop it into a box for you to take away and have later! The starters and puddings are also brilliant! Great selection of ice cream - would recommend the apple sorbet in particular!! The service is fantastic, the waiters are very attentive and great fun! Would recommend this place for any occasion - fancy romantic meal, family dinners, going out with friends, special occasions - they have it all here! Although I live at the other end of Edinburgh, it is definitely worth a trip down here!
Visited La Favourita in December for dinner with my wife in December. The food was of a decent standard but perhaps a little overpriced for what you get. The drinks are pricey, we were a bit shocked when the bill came and you saw how much they were charging for a draught beer and house wine. 
The pizzas are ok but they need to put more cheese on them. They are a bit tight with the cheese and the chicken was not breast chicken. When I ordered the chicken pizza I presumed that it would be tasty breast chicken, not dark leg meat. 
The tables are really close together and therefore the diners at the tables near you can hear every word you say.
It is always a pleasure to visit this restaurant. The staff is friendly but not too much and the food is tasty, deliciously plated and the portions are quite generous.
Very recommended.
We have walked past this restaurant but never gone in before. However we now know what we have been missing. The choice was great, the food was tremendous and the service was superb. We will definately return when next in Edinburgh.
A fantastic, friendly Italian restaurant with a lovely, relaxed ambience. A wide, varied menu to suit all tastes is one obvious reason to go there, but we go there because the staff are second to none - even when busy they always go that little bit extra. Never felt more welcome in a restaurant - will definitely be going back many times. Thank you all for a great evening.
This doesn't deserve to be as high up as it is. The service is great but the food is very ordrinary and overpriced.
This is a nice place to go for a family meal. The food is good, especially the pasta dishes. Last night the temperature was a little cool; a cold blast of air blows in every time the door is opened. The service is friendly and welcoming.
Been staying in South Queensferry on a work trip, disappointed with the food in the first two restaurants I tried The Two Bridges and The Metal Bridge so judging by the prices of Bella Vista assumed it would be good food. I ordered the seafood pizza at £17, the most expensive pizza I have ever come across, from the price I expected it would be great ... how wrong I was a section of the crust that had burnt had been removed, out of the 7 mussel shells on the pizza two of the mussels were not there the others were way over cooked shriveled up one was actually crunchy ! Terrible food at extortionate prices. I wish I had complained but after eating at the first two restaurants thought the whole town was geared up to selling bad food to tourists etc. Luckily found two excellent restaurants since Oroco Pier and The Boat House eat there similar prices and amazing food. I am gobsmacked at the good reviews on here, and could have written word for word what 'travelling-arab' said in his review. I am a local and people here wouldn't go near it. Frankly I'm surprised it hasn't folded before now - it's always empty, despite the 'bella vista'. What puts people - other than the unwary traveller who knows nothing of the place - off? The extortionate prices, terrible service, below average food and generally tatty air of the place. Avoid like the plague. If you want a good Italian just get the bus/train into Edinburgh and take your pick. Bar Roma on Queensferry St's not too far away.
If you visit a restaurant to see the view and hate good food, good service and value for money then this is the restaurant for you. 

If however you seek good food, good service or decent value then buy a sandwich and sit outside this restaurant and enjoy the view.

My wife and I had minestrone soup which the waiter (owner/manager I may add) slopped all over the bowls and almost all over my wife and not a hint of apology.

I had lasagne which was burned and my wife who doesnt like mussels chose the very expensive chicken and mussel risotto but asked if she could have it without mussels - This they did but still charged the premium seafood price and to boot the chicken was tough as an old horse or alsatian (perhaps it was).

The plates and cutlery, I had the impression, had been stolen/bought/borrowed from my great great great aunts (or perhaps it was the owners/managers) scullery so old fashioned were they

When I asked for the bill I had the impression that the waiter (manager/owner) couldnt be bothered even to do that for me and not a word of thanks or bonhomie etc

All in all I shant be eating at this restaurant again (I hope) and suggest that you follow suit.

I might add that we were staying at the near at hand Marriott Dalmahoy which is relatively expensive and up market but wanted an Italian meal and as a contrast the Dalmahoy Marriott made you feel happy to pay premium prices for high quality service and being made to feel welcome.
Lovely Italian dishes are served by friendly staff in the aptly named restaurant located in the historic town of South Queensferry.

The restaurant is located just above the Firth of Forth and you get the feeling that you are in the water from some of the tables. Enjoy your meal whilst taking in the view of the Forth Rail and Road Bridges. 

Prices are quite high for an Italian in the Edinburgh area, hence the rating, if it was a little cheaper I'd have scored it higher.

La Cantinetta Antinori Palazzo Antinori 3 Tel. (055) 292-234, closed Saturdays & Sundays (you'll want to make reservations in the summer). In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level. I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate. For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip. The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended. Back to restaurant list Dai Ricchi Florence, Via Della Docciola 14. Tel: 055/402024 Closed Tuesdays. Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it. Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day. Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see. Back to restaurant list L'Enoteca Fuori Porta Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad. Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up. Back to restaurant list L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together. Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage. The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this. Back to restaurant list More Restaurant suggestions, from Cosa Bolle In Pentola Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands. She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list: 1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch 2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs. 3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon 4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon 5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun 6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town) 7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue 8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon 9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun 10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun 11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles. Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties." And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English. "Contact: Leo Porzio, Adria 2 Hotel, Via Montebello, 49, Florence 50123, Italy; phone: 011-39-55-212-086; fax: 011-39-55-215-029; e-mail: adria2@dada.it." And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight. Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida. He replies: "Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…" Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian: "Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around. "The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori." "Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible. "Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time." Tomaso's dining room is simple but nice. The owner included his standard cherubs on the ceiling! There is a bar that's not very separated from the dining room. TVs in upscale restaurants bug me. This bar was not a 'meat market'. It seemed like just a few friends meeting for a happy hour snack. A sign read that appetizers were half price until 7 p.m., but that only applies to the bar area. :-( The bread at Tomaso's was a disappointment. Not warm, crust not crunchy. I feel that places that serve olive oil for bread should have fresh ground pepper. None offered. While we were there, a couple came in, sat down, looked at the menu and left. Sticker shock. This place seems to attract more of a middle aged crowd. I guess that's who can afford it! The entrees were excellent, and overshadowed those small negatives that were minor in comparison. Guide Review - Tomaso's Italian Restaurant Our visit to Tomaso's was a pleasant one. We had visited Tomaso's original location in Phoenix years ago, but this was our first chance to visit the Chandler location. My friends both liked the Fried Calamari appetizer better than I did. I found it a little over breaded, but at least it was tender and not chewy. Definitely a portion large enough for two to share. I enjoyed the Mediterranean Platter -- real anchovies! -- I enjoy the variety and the choices were light and very tasty. Again, large enough to share. The entrees at Tomaso's were the highlight of the meal. The Lobster and Seafood Cioppino was wonderful, too huge to finish. The Scampi with Lobster Ravioli was different than typical scampi; it was more like a garlicky marsala sauce, and had mushrooms. Although I love traditional scampi, I'd go back for this entree again. The Osso Buco was also a hit, although my eating companion snagged some of my vegetables to go with it. Here's a warning about Tomaso's web site: as of this writing it is incomplete (where's the dinner menu? where are the desserts?) and the prices are out of date. They are all higher now. Tomaso's gets high ratings for their tiramisu--we tried a sample and it was excellent. We were just too full to order dessert! If you check around (see link below for "Coupons and Discounts") you can sometimes find discounted certificates for Tomaso's. We'll be going back to Tomaso's again, and we're looking forward to it. Caffee Macaroni  (click to see more) is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach @ 59 Columbus / 956-9737 North Beach Restaurant Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks). 1512 Stockton Street @ Columbus in the heart of North Beach 415-392-1700 Our Readers Recommend: Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..." (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person. 1257 Taylor @ Washington 415-922-2545 Ti Piacera - Northern Italian restaurant recommended by a reader for great value. 1507 Polk St. 415-771-9946 Word on the street is... "Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro. Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu." 4109 24th Street. San Francisco. Phone: (415) 282-5872 We heard... "I tried a new Italiana restaurant in the Castro (on Market St.) Repastoria Satyricon. The food was great (I had a salmon and pasta dish and my partner had the polenta), the ambience was warm and cozy, and there was a decent selection of wines by the glass. Service was very attentive also." Earlier this week my wife and I celebrated our 19th wedding anniversary at RoSals Restaurant on Taylor Street. This ten table restaurant serves up some of the best Sicilian style cuisine in the neighborhood with a very extensive pasta list to choose from. Among the pastas are traditional dishes like Rigatoni Arrabbiata, Sweet Annolotti and Homemade Raviolis. The veal, fish, beef and chicken dishes are straight out of Sicily. This restaurant was opened in 1990 by Salvatore and Rosanne Perry who lived in the Little Italy neighborhood for years before opening this nice little Italian restaurant. There is nothing better than a family owned restaurant. When you first walk into the dining room it seems like your walking into some ones home. The restaurant has a very warm and inviting atmosphere with photos lining the walls. We had early reservations on an off night, like I normally like to eat because I figure nobody will be there, but the place was so full by 7:30 they had to open the upstairs dining room. Any restaurant in the city would kill for that kind of business. We first ordered a bottle of Righetti Valpolicella 2004 to start off the evening. We drink much better when we’re out with the “Wine Guys”. For appetizers we ended up ordering the Stuffed Mushroom and the Stuffed Artichoke, needless to say we were stuffed before the entrees, but that didn’t stop us. When it came to the entrées my wife broke my rule about ordering steak at an Italian restaurant but at least the sautéed spinach that it came with was made Sicilian style. So anyway she ordered the Filet Mignon with cracked black pepper but instead got the steak covered with crushed red pepper flakes which was rather disappointing though the steak was very good. I ordered the Veal Steppanjohnno which is similar to the Breaded Veal recipe I recently posted. It’s an excellent dish that we enjoyed very much. There was a great flavor combination going on with the veal, vegetables, prosciutto and provolone that we enjoyed very much. For dessert we had a Lemoncello Zabaglione that was so light and airy it complimented the dinner perfectly. All in all, RoSals is a nice casual place with excellent Sicilian food. Bring the whole family to enjoy this little Italian restaurant in the heart of Little Italy. Check out their menu at Rosal’s Italian Cucina located at 1154 West Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607. For much needed reservations call 312-243-2357. I ended up at a dinner party this week at Biaggis Ristorante Italiano in Deer Park, Illinois. Chef and managing partner, Tony Marlotti, prepared some wonderful dishes to compliment the wines we tasted. Biaggis Ristorante Italiano is a chain of around twenty gourmet Italian restaurants serving many traditional favorites plus special creations cooked up by the Executive Chef. When you first enter the restaurant the wide open décor is warm and inviting. A large bar area separates the main dining area and a private dining area is separate from everyone else. This is where we had our dinner.  When we entered the private dining area a beautiful display table was set up by Biaggi’s beverage team that displayed all of the wines that were being served that evening. The event was hosted by The Shilling & Kramer, who imported the wines from the Piedmont region of Italy and Bacchus Wine Company, who distributes the wines here in Illinois. Again I find myself surrounded by wine experts. Though I’m not a novice. I’ve been in this business long enough to have tasted some pretty great wines. As far as the food was concerned, Chef Marlotti did a great job in creating some very unique dishes to pair with the wines that were being served. We were first served “Insalata con Rucola”, which was a light arugala salad with figs and nuts. A great start to a great evening. The first wine that was served was “De Faveri Colli Trevigiani Spago Prosecco”. This wine was a nice light dry sparkling wine with a little nutty flavor to it and went very well with the “Gamberi al Erbe, Fungi e Patate” , which is herb crusted shrimp with caramelized mushrooms and roasted potatoes served in a shrimp stock. An excellent dish for this wine. Next we tasted a bottle of “Mauro Veglio Barbera d’Alba 2005” which was full and robust in flavor with a bouquet of spices and fruit. This wine was served with “Campanelle con Ceci e Cavolfiore” which is flowered shaped pasta tossed with chickpeas and cauliflower in a zesty sauce. This dish turned out to be one of my favorites and went very well with the choice of wine.  The next dish was my absolute favorite. We were served “Pollo e Melanzane Arrabiata” which was a roasted chicken wrapped with eggplant with a sweet spicy tomato sauce. This excellent dish was paired with an excellent bottle of Mauro Veglio Dolceito 2005”. Unfortunately we all agreed at the table the food and the wine was great separately but didn’t pair up that well together.  The other entrée was “Agnello Arrostato al Tartufo” which is a roasted lamb that was served with black truffles, cipolin onions and cavolo nero Italian black cabbage with a veal reduction. An excellent choice for the “Mauro Veglio Casteletto Borolo 2001 that we tasted. Though the lamb could have been rarer for my taste, the dish was a great show of creativity.  To end the evening we were served “Pesche Ripieni alla Piedmontese” which is stuffed peaches with zabaglione. A light and simple dessert that truly complimented the entire menu.  What can I say about a Chicago landmark that has been in business for eighty years. The Italian Village Restaurants has been owned and operated by the Capitanini family since 1927 and has been successful ever since. Alfred Capitanini, who immigrated to this country, offered authentic Italian cuisine at a very good price. Years ago I would go to the Village often and have always enjoyed the atmosphere and the food. Service is always top notch since a majority of the staff has been around for quite some time I’m sure they have everything down to a science by now.  The Italian Village has three restaurants under one roof, “The Village”, “La Cantina” and “Vivere” and boasts the largest wine cellars in the Midwest. All three restaurants share a 45,000 bottle wine list, which sommelier Ron Balter maintains on a daily basis.  My wife and I decided on eating at “The Village” located on the second floor. Designed like a little Italian town, “The Village” is a very cozy and romantic place to dine.  We started with an order of “Baked Clams Oreganata” and an Italian antipasto which was excellent. Baked clams have always been my favorite since I was young.  For our entrees we ended up ordering the “Rotolo di Polo” which was chicken rolled with sausage, prosciutto and sage and served with fettuccini alfredo and my wife’s all time favorite “Pollo alla Vesuvio” which is served with Vesuvius potatoes and loaded with herbs and garlic. Needless to say both dishes were delicious but I especially enjoyed the “Rotolo di Polo”. The best “Chicken Vesuvio” we ever had was at “La Fontanella” on 24th and Oakley.  I don’t drink as well as when I’m with my wine guys, they usually bring something from their private collections to the table, but we did have a simple bottle of Lungaritti Pino Grigio which was fine with our meal.  To top off the evening we simply enjoyed coffee with Sambuca . This time we were just to full for dessert. The Italian Village is the oldest Italian restaurant in Chicago and a great part of Italian-American history. They are located at 71 West Monroe. For reservations phone 312-332-7005 or visit their website at Trattoria No. 10 has been a Chicago favorite since 1989. It’s a great place to stop before the theater or after work. This place has a great bar, an elegant atmosphere and serves many original Italian dishes under the direction of Executive Chef Douglas D’Avico. If you work downtown or are just visiting the city, they have a marvelous bar buffet between 5:00 and 7:30 p.m.. The buffet includes shrimp cocktail, antipasti, pastas and salads. Perfect for an after work get together. I went there for the first time with my two wine experts John and Chuck and we met another guy who’s opening a wine store. Needless to say I was out of my league when it came to the conversation but I’m still learning. They brought a few bottles for dinner and ended up ordering one off the menu. We started off with Ferarri Brut, a nice non vintage Italian sparkling wine. After that we drank a bottle of 1999 Zine Humbrecht Riesling and ended up with a great bottle of 2001 Brolio Barolo for dinner. Dinner was excellent. Trattoria No. 10 specializes in homemade ravioli, seafood, fresh risotto and pastas. The risotto with smoked mozzarella, spinach and Parmigiano Reggiano served with four slices of tender skirt steak was to die for. I just couldn’t get enough of this wonderful dish. The smoked flavor of the mozzarella just set this dish apart from any other. Executive Chef Doug D'Avico was nice enough to share this Risotto with Grilled Skirt Steak recipe. Thanks Chef, I appreciate it. Along with the risotto we ordered the farfalle pasta with duck confit, asparagus, mushrooms, pearl onions and pine nuts. Both dishes were a great choice before the entrees arrived. Two of our guests order filets which you don’t particularly need to go to an Italian restaurants to order. If I want steak I’ll go to one of our many excellent steak houses in the city, not to an Italian restaurant. One of my friends ordered the veal scaloppini which was cooked to perfection. Served with roasted asparagus, artichokes, sage and lemon garlic and wine, this dish is an excellent choice for anyone who loves veal. I finally decided on the cavatappi pasta with beef tenderloin, mushrooms, roasted red onions, red wine and parmesan cheese. Though a little oily for my taste, it was still almost as good as the risotto. A great place in the heart of downtown Chicago. Trattoria No. 10 is located at 10 North Dearborn. Their menu changes daily but you can visit their site at www.trattoriaten.com for more information and reservations. After dinner at Trattoria No. 10 I decided to venture off into Chicago’s nightlife to see if anything has changed since I’ve worked down on Rush Street. I stopped by the infamous Jilly's, across from Gibson’s to visit a few friends that I haven’t seen in along time. I had worked for the Jilly’s organization for many years and I was wondering how the place has changed since I left, so as long as I was out I decided to stop in. For those of you not familiar with Jilly’s let me give you a little history. Jilly Rizzo was Frank Sinatra’s best friend and a friend of Nick Caruso Sr., who founded Jilly’s on May 6, 1995. Uncle Nick, as we affectionately called him, opened Jilly’s Piano Bar at 1007 North Rush Street to pay tribute to Jilly, Sinatra and his music. One of the best parts of working there was hearing Uncle Nick tell some of his great Sinatra stories. I couldn’t keep track of the celebrities that walk through the doors almost on a daily basis. I remember Don Rickles, who was there celebrating one of his birthdays, giving me a twenty dollar tip and saying “Always take care of the man who takes care of the bar”. Not to mention Rita Moreno dancing around like she just came out of “West Side Story”. One of the best times was walking into Jilly’s Piano Bar and there was Tom Jones singing with the band or when Uncle Nick hosted the Italian American Sports Hall of Fame dinners and the room was full of legendary sportsmen like Jake LaMotta, Tony Esposito, Carmine Basilio and Mohammed Ali. These are just a few of the people that came in to see Uncle Nick when they were in town and the list goes on and on. We definitely had some great times at Jilly’s.  Unfortunately, Nick Caruso Sr. passed away this past July and will be dearly missed. Thanks Uncle Nick for the opportunity of working for you and for the memories that will last me a lifetime. Jilly’s has been one of the most remarkable entertainment venues on Rush St. for many years. With entertainment such as Nick Russo and Bobby Thorton you can't go wrong. When you walk into the place you know your in for a good time. Dance all night or sit back and enjoy some of their signature cocktails. This is definitely the place to see and be seen. Tables are always reserved so it's best to phone first. If your in the Naperville area make sure you visit my friend Nick Caruso Jr., who is managing Jilly’s West in the heart of downtown Naperville at 103 South Main Street. Nick is keeping the torch alive by bringing you same quality entertainment you would experience on Rush Street. Over forty years ago Connies Pizza opened in a small store front in my Bridgeport neighborhood on 26th Street. Today Connie's has many locations throughout the city, a fleet of delivery trucks and a thriving catering and frozen food division. It seems like just yesterday I walked over to 26th Street to grab a slice of their delicious pizza. Now, the Connie’s on Archer Avenue is a huge warehouse like structure designed with Italian canned goods and antiques. The interior’s bare brick walls are filled with vintage posters and the sounds of Sinatra, Dean Martin and Louie Prima play throughout the restaurant. The other day we took our son Joey over there for his tenth birthday and had a very nice time. We ate mozzarella wedges, fried zucchini, pizza, ribs and fried chicken. Yes, we had plenty of leftovers which I ate for my midnight snack. It wasn’t a good idea but a tasty one. My son could live the rest of his life on mozzarella sticks and pizza and drives me crazy when it comes to eating any of my food. My daughter Alexa, on the other hand, eats like she’s the only one in the house. Needless to say I have no problem with her eating things I cook. Anyway as far as Connie’s is concerned the pizza was by far better than anything else though the mozzarella and zucchini were excellent. It was a Wednesday evening and the place was full of families. There were large tables of people celebrating birthdays and just having a great time. It’s a nice casual place to take the kids for some delicious tasting pizza and will always be a family favorite. Early Saturday afternoon I received a phone call from my friend John from Bacchus Wines here in Chicago. He said “Be ready by 4:30 we’re going out to dinner. You haven’t done a review lately and you need another one.” He was right I haven’t been out in a while and I needed to get things done. He told me we were going to an Italian restaurant on the North side but wouldn’t tell me which one. We arrived at a place called Terragusto Italian Café and Market in the Roscoe Village neighborhood. It was a small joint with about ten tables and doesn’t sell liquor so you have to bring your own bottle which a lot of people don’t seem to mind now a day even though I do. Anyway, in the front window was a pasta making area where they make fresh pasta daily plus all the dishes are made completely with organic ingredients. Nice surprise, I knew I was in for something different from the start.  While we waited for our friend Chuck from Oenos Wine Imports to arrive John opened a non-vintage De Favari Prosseco, a very nice sparkling wine to start off the evening. He also decanted a 1996 bottle of Castelle Di Rampole Sammarco which was excellent with our first course. When Chuck arrived he brought a 2005 bottle of Thursten Wolf Vinognor Pinot Gris and the highlight of the evening, a 1979 Bruno Giacosa Barbaresco. There’s definitely an advantage to dining with two wine connoisseurs. Now on to the food. Like traditional Italian dining , the food is served in courses. Terragusto recommends sharing and so do I. This is a great way for everyone to try the different dishes they have to offer. We started with an appetizer combination which was served with a nice crostini (grilled bread rubbed with olive oil). The appetizers were good but uneventful. A simple plate of fresh mozzarella, mussels, hard boiled eggs and fresh shredded vegetables were served with some delicious roasted brussel sprouts.  We had our choice of three pasta dishes and two meat or fish dishes. We decided on the “Tagliatelle con Patate, Fagiolini, Nocciola e Pecorino Romano” which is whole grain tagliatelle pasta with potatoes, green beans, and walnuts topped with a salty aged sheep’s milk cheese. I was different in texture and not full of flavor though the pasta was cooked to perfection. Next we tried the “Pasticcio alla Gnocchi di Semola” which seemed like I couldn’t get enough of. This dish of semolina Swiss chard dumplings baked with sage, sweet gorgonzola and parmigiano cheese was a nice change from some of the Italian meals I’ve ate. The best part of the whole dinner was the unbelievable “Pasta alla Bolognese”. All three of us agreed that this tagiatelle pasta dish with its creamy four meat sauce, tomatoes, red wine and parmigiano cheese was the best any of us ever had.  We also ordered the skirt steak and the pork which was served with yellow squash and grilled polenta. Again we all agreed it was good but uneventful. The meats just were not seasoned in the true Italian tradition which we were accustom too. Dessert was simple as it should be. The bread pudding was least desired but the maple cream panna cotta with julienne cut Granny Smith apples truely topped off the meal.  Would I eat at Terragusto again? Yes! Chef Theo Gilbert is exceptionally creative and the menu does change every week. Remember if you decide to go, make reservations in advance. The place is small and difficult to get into. Gioco is a place I've been wanting to go too for quite some time now and I finally got the chance last week. I've heard many good things about this restaurant from a number of people and let me tell you they were not exaggerating. If your in the hospitality business in Chicago your well aware of co-owner Jerry Kliener and his partners expertise in opening restaurants. With the success of places like Marche, Red Light and Opera, it's no surprise that Gioco has become a very popular place in such a short time. Located south of Roosevelt Road, in an area which is still being developed, Gioco is a great choice for dinner or drinks. As soon as you walk in you can smell the wood burning stove which sets the mood for the rustic Italian dinner that follows. The room is a large open space with brick walls, velvet curtains and high ceilings. The large bar is simply elegant with it's high shelves lined with books, wines and liquors. The open kitchen is another added plus. I love watching a kitchen at work. My wife and I had reservations around six o'clock on a Thursday night. If you've been in the business as long as I have, you know to avoid the weekends if you want to relax and enjoy your meal. If you want to go on the weekends be prepared to wait for a table. I looked up the menu on-line to get an idea of what we wanted before getting there. Unfortunately, I chose the "Costata Di Maiale" (12oz grilled pork chop) which was no longer on the menu. This is a detail that should be fixed in order not to disappoint any more of their guests in the future. For appetizers we ordered the "Cozzi alla Marinara" which are steamed mussels with white wine, garlic and tomato and the "Melanzane Fritte". Both dishes were equally delicious. For dinner I ended up ordering the "Brasato Di Maiale" which is braised pork that was served on a bed of creamy polenta. My wife had the "Costata Di Manzo con Funghi Trifolati" which is the wood-grilled 16oz ribeye with mushrooms. The pork was tender and juicy and fell right off this huge bone sitting on my plate. The combination of flavor was just fantastic. This dish certainly made up for not having the pork chop. My wife mentioned that the steak was the best she ever had and can't wait to go back. We finished up our dinner with a chocolate cake that topped the entire meal. Tufanos Vernon Park Tap is a place I will have a very hard time judging since I went there many times with my father when I was very young. I went there for the first time recently in at least twenty years. The last time I was there was with my father and after seeing the menu I ordered the same thing I remembered he had the last time we were there. My friend John. who owns Bacchus Wine Co., called me up last minute to go out to dinner. Undecided, I mentioned going to see Uncle Sonny who bar tends at Tufanos. Sonny was a good friend of my fathers and someone I haven't seen in a long time. I've missed him and thought about him many times throughout the years. Tufanos Vernon Park Tap brought back many memories. Things I haven't thought about in years. Anyway as far as the food, my friend ended up ordering the veal parmesan and I had the pork chops with sweet peppers which were out of this world. I've always recommended their lemon chicken but I wanted to try something different. Don't go there for the atmosphere or the service. Go there for the food. The pork chops were tender and delicious and my friend enjoyed the veal just the same. If you don't mind reading a menu off of a chalk board in a very casual atmosphere make sure you stop by Tufanos and say hello to Uncle Sonny on a Saturday night. This place had the best Italian food I've had in a long time. Besides my own of course. Make sure you take time out to visit. There's no website but you can call Tufanos at 1-312-733-3393 for reservations. They're located at 1073 West Vernon Park in the heart of Chicago's 'Little Italy". If you live in Chicago or are just visiting, there is no place in town you would rather be at than The Joynt. If you don’t appreciate style and class then this is not the place for you. The Joynt is a luxurious four room nightclub that features some of the best live music, cocktails and ambiance this city has to offer and that’s just in one room. Depending on your mood you may choose to relax in the The Lounge or dance the night away in the downstairs Retro Club. The Joynt opened in the trendy River North section of Chicago in April of 2008 and continues to attract a certain clientele who enjoy great music and a type of atmosphere you’ll only find in a Micky Spillane novel. It’s a type of place where gentlemen are gentlemen and ladies are ladies. There are not many places left in the city where people actually dress up before going out on a night on the town but the The Joynt is definitely that kind place. The main attraction is not necessarily the music or the atmosphere but the owners and the staff. From the time you enter the door until the time you leave you are treated as if you’re a long lost friend or famiglia, like us Italians like to say. Whether you’re worth a million dollars or one hundred dollars you’ll be welcomed like you’ve been going there for years. Stan Wozniak is the man behind the concept. I’ve worked for Stan for years at Bigg’s Restaurant, Jilly’s and Rizzo’s. If there is anything I learned from him is that everyone is treated like a V.I.P.. Stan makes sure his staff knows that from the very beginning. That is why I know when you walk into The Joynt you’ll be greeted by a friendly staff, entertained by only the best musicians and mingle with some of the nicest people you’ll ever want to meet. So if you into sophistication, a relaxed atmosphere, great music, dancing and top shelf drinks, then The Joynt is the place for you. I’ve been known to drop by on occasion. I’m the guy with the glass of Dewers on the rocks. The Joynt is located at 650 North Dearborn Street on the corner or Erie and Dearborn. For advanced reservations for a table: Phone 1-312-573-2233. I finally got a chance last week to dine at the newest Italian Taylor Street eatery Three Aces owned by my friends Anthony Potenzo (Jilly’s, Sushi Samba Rio, Gianiotti’s) and Lyle Aker (Five Star, Whiskey Sky, Whiskey Bar).  If you have ever eaten down on Taylor street then you know you can walk into a dozen restaurants serving the same traditional meals with Frank Sinatra or Dean Martin playing in the background. This is definitely not the case at Three Aces. When you first arrive at Three Aces you’ll notice the sign. Not just any sign but a sign designed by the legendary Chicago artist Tony Fitzpatrick. Yes, not only can you see Tony’s work at the Art Institute of Chicago, MOMA in New York or in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Miami but now you can view it on Taylor Street. This alone should tell you your in for a great experience.  But there’s more, much more. When you enter Three Aces you enter Anthony and Lyle’s home. If there were beds in the back this is definitely what they’re apartment might look like. A huge bar with an extensive beer list, black booths, exposed brick walls, lighting salvaged from Joliet prison and rock and roll music playing throughout. If that doesn’t set the mood for the evening nothing will. If your lucky you’ll be able to enjoy Executive Chef Matt Troost’s wonderful creations in one of the areas honoring literary giants Nelson Algren and Charles Bukowski. Or enjoy your Romano, sausage or braised chicken thigh pizzetta while sitting in the Tom Waits booth.  Anywhere you sit I’m sure you’ll enjoy the many delicacies Three Aces has to offer. Chef Matt Troost (Fianco) has created a menu that is to be enjoyed by all. His farm to table small plate Italian concept is a great way to share a meal with family and friends. I went there to try the steak sandwich and ended up ordering the Arancini, which was lightly breaded, oozing with fontina cheese and served on a bed of braised oxtail. Then we moved on to the Pappardelle with the Bolognese sauce and the Pici, which is made in house and served topped with braised lamb, black olives, pine nuts and a cured egg yolk. As if this wasn’t enough we went on to order the Romano Pizzetta and finally the Steak Sandwich, which was drizzled with aioli and topped with caramelized onion and fontina cheese. Needless to say I couldn’t move when we were finished. What started out as I simple dinner ended up as a feast. Next time I'm going to order the burger. Looks good doesn't it?  Three Aces is definitely my favorite new hangout. If you love rock and roll and Italian food then Three Aces is the place you’ll want to be. So if your in the neighborhood stop by. You’ll eat like "the king", drink like "a writer" and be treated like a "rock star". Three Aces is located at 1321 West Taylor St. in Chicago’s "Little Italy" (312-243-1577). They don’t take reservations and you can seat yourself. Just make sure you ask for Anthony or Lyle when you get there. To view there full menu and hours of operation visit Three Aces Chicago.com.  Best breakfast ever! I was arriving from a long trip when my husband suggested to have breakfast at ino, it was the best decision!! I recover my self with a delicious coffee and sandwich! Posted by Julz on 11/07/2010 Lovely tiny Italian spot I was taken here for a first date and it was a great spot with a nice intimate feel. We shared a plate of bruschetta and then each got a panini, perfect meal! The waiter was always quick to ask if we wanted anything else and our water glass was always refilled quickly. Great hole in the wall! Posted by NYNY on 09/30/2010 Delicious Fave place in city for panini and bruchettas. Everything is made with fresh, quality ingredients. Cappuccino is very good. Lots of other yummy items and decent wines. Great place for lunch. Can be very crowded, which means it's good. Posted by anonymous on 09/15/2010 great food but rude waiter! met a couple of friends for lunch. the food as usual was delicious. but the waiter was extremely rude! Posted by satisfied but annoyed on 09/14/2010 delicious food, terrible service I've always loved ino and the food and atmosphere are delicious. Normally, the service is great. Today I had lunch there and the waiter was extraordinarily rude, aggressive and sarcastic. He threw the menu on our table after giving smart-alecky, rude responses to our questions. Strikingly unpleasant. Will make me think twice before going there again if he's still there. Posted by AB on 01/26/2010 Meh I met a friend here for a quick bite after work. That quick bite turned into waiting about 20 minutes between each course, then another 15 waiting for the check. One waitress was working really hard, it seemed, while the other was chatting with "customers" (though I assume that they were her friends, as she couldn't tear herself away from them to refill my water glass). My sandwich and salad were good. Not bad. Not great. Not inventive. But okay. The final note of our meal was a fruit dessert served with too much honey and no knife with which to cut the hard piece of toast. The flavors were there. The service was unfortunate and I ended up paying more (without wine) than I had the previous evening at another, vastly superior, restaurant. Go figure. Posted by Maria on 09/29/2009 Going back for more I stumbled upon 'ino on this site actually looking for a new lunch place to meet up with a girlfriend. We ordered the Quattro Panini which allows you to try 4 different kinds of paninis on one plate. They were all delicious! Finish with a cup of cappucino and you've had a perfect lunch. We've been back once more so far and definately anticipate going back again and again to try all of the delicious sounding menu items. Definately deserves a visit! Northern Italian cuisine is given the royal treatment at this infinitely romantic number, a place where words like "flawless" and "perfection" aren't just abstract terms ... they're measurable daily standards. Owner-Chef Michael Cetrulo never fails to dazzle with dishes like his peppered rib venison chop with port and balsamic vinegar sauce or tuna Milanese with arugula, cucumber and tarragon salad. For connoisseurs, the wine list is noteworthy for the emphasis it places on products from small, specialty vineyards. TRAIN: A, C, 1, 2, 3, 9 to Chambers St Known for the large portions of garlic-heavy, Italian cuisine, Il Mulino is definitely a popular spot among New York Villagers who really know good Italian. Prepare to wait at this hot spot, but never fear, the experience is worth both the wait and the money. TRAIN: A, B, C, D, E, F, Q to W 4th St L'incontro makes a terrific argument for an excursion. Located in Astoria, this eatery is dressed for style and comfort — a rustic brick oven, earthy tones of brown and terra cotta, white linens, original artwork and lush greenery. Servers recite Chef Rocco Sacramone's daily specials from memory, and his homemade renditions of dishes like grilled octopus, mascarpone and pesto-stuffed ravioli, and Mediterranean sea bass are superbly done. If pizza is more your speed, their brick oven gems are a must. Music is featured Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. TRAIN: N, W to Astoria Blvd This Upper East Sider features fabulous homestyle Italian cuisine and a cozy atmosphere, including candle lit tables, soft lighting and a friendly waitstaff. Expect to find an older crowd here — after all, they know best — as well as a few well-heeled youngsters who just adore the place's romantic atmosphere. Specialties include linguine with white clam sauce, stuffed veal, wood-fired fish skewers and lamb chops. Take your time and enjoy the break Erminia affords . . . just make sure you save room for dessert. TRAIN: 4,5,6 to 86th St Gone downhill I am actually sad writing this... Inoteca used to be the gal's go to spot for great food, wine and atmosphere/service. Its been a little over a year since my last visit and boy have things gone south (new owners maybe?). We had a reservation for 9P (6 ppl) and at 9:45 were still waiting for our table. "Our" table had a group sipping bottomless espressos, so they sat us downstairs next to an incredibly obnoxious bunch. These ppl were out of control drunk, loud beyond belief and knocking over drinks... No one said a word to them and I'm pretty sure the manager was mopping up their mess. We couldn't hear s#$%! so were moved back upstairs. What followed was slowwww service, subpar food (I used to love the truffle egg toast- no more) and super loud rap music. Inoteca basically ruined our night. So many better spots in the area. Very sad. Posted by docnusso on 11/05/2010 You Have Got To Be Kidding! In a city with so much to choose from, how the heck i fell prey to a few overly kind reviews of this pretentious, overpriced, lackluster noisebox beats the hell outta me. The wine was average at best, and less so relative to price. The Piatti are tasteless and similarly gouge-o-matic. Granted, the thrust of the joint is primarily small plates, however this is a surprise to the uninitiated and no menu is displayed outside to allow a perusal of available fare. Avoid this loud, ridiculous waste of your calorie allotment and try one of the many other fine establishments in the area. I went for a burger after dining here and was far happier!!. Posted by Nick on 06/05/2010 Super non autentico 'inoteca has a nice ambience, good service, and a nice selection of wines. However, the food was a supreme disappointment. The restaurant feigns the appearance of an authentic Italian restaurant. However, the selection, preparation, and taste not only belie this claim of authenticity, but also left me completely dissatisfied with my meal. We got the prix fixe menu, and this is the first time that I can say I was honestly insulted by the food that the chef chose to serve to us. The first course was fine, but completely unmemorable. The second course consisted of meatballs, pasta, and panini. The pasta was rigatoni covered in oily cheese; it was nothing more in substance or taste than mac and cheese. The meatballs were meatballs and the panini was panini. Both are dishes that would never be served as a main course at an Italian restaurant. All of the main courses were incredibly cheap dishes with a very large mark up. If the main course didn't confirm that the owner seemed more intent to make money than to serve decent food, the desert left me feeling completely cheated. "Panna cotta" was served, but I'm still not convinced it wasn't greek yogurt. And if I hadn't had my fill of panini, the meal with a desert panini made from nutella on toasted white bread. I left disappointed, and my Italian girlfriend left insulted. In the future when I crave oily, poor quality, and unauthentic Italian food, I'll go to Sbarro. At least I won't feel cheated when I pay the bill. Posted by anonymouse on 05/09/2010 Not great Egg-plant Lasagna was good although very rich. Prosciutto cotto & spicy mayo tramezzini tasted just like a regular ham sandwich, meatballs tasted very processed with a fair share of starch-based fillers. However, Gorgonzola and grape bruschette was very good. The ambiance and service was good but if somewhere is arrogant enough to have an all Italian menu (which can only leave diners feeling ignorant when they have to have everything translated), the food should be amazing. Sorry guys, not worth it. Posted by Eileen on 02/08/2010 Taste this pesto So my friends and I left our comfort zone of the upper west side to journey downtown. The food is fun and really special. You bite, you make yummy noises and gesture happy mouth and entreat everyone to "taste this pesto. This is remarkable pesto". Rather you yell "taste this pesto." because the volume of the music was at such an unkind anti conversation, stupefying level. I don't get it. What's with the blast, especially in a place like this, where the focus should be good friends having a great time sharing this wonderful food and wine. The staff is nice and knowledgeable. I suspect they were all wearing earplugs. Posted by Eileen on 02/07/2010 Wonderful food, Great Service, Loud music The food is kinda wonderful. My friends and I were signaling "happy mouth" across the table, then sharing tastes off each others plates. Note: signaling... because we could not hear each other over the extremely cranked up music. Add to this mix the shouting matches at all the tables. Ouch. Hey, I want to go back. Is there a night when the background music is not foreground in your face, noise? volumeeveryone in the place was yelling. I want to go back... the service was efficient and knowledgeable and friendly But the noise. Ouch! Is there a quiet night? We were there on a Friday night. Posted by Neil R on 07/17/2009 Great place to start a night. Though only standing room was available, the staff was cool about it, and we had a great time eating and dodging waiters. The panini were excellent. Def looking forward to going back and trying some of the other dishes. And sitting down. Sloppy Gloppy That was what the lasagna was: a big messy heap of glop in the middle of a sagging tin plate, that spilled all over everything. Meatballs were edible and hot, but the sauce and the pizza sauce were absolutely tasteless. It was red, so presumably tomato, but no taste whatsoever. I'll stick to local pizzerias with no pretensions. Oh, and the blueberry pie was gummy and inedible. Just subpar all round. Posted by Yum333 on 02/23/2011 Best thin crust pizza in East Village I can eat this pizza endlessly - Old school Brooklyn style. Great quality cheese, best buck for you bang. Wouldn't recommend anything else on menu, we were disappointed every time. We order the meatballs, they were as big as quarters, cold, and unappetizing. We also once ordered their fries, frozen waxy shoe strings. But the pizza ROCKS!!! Posted by Anonymous on 01/25/2011 Old Standby 11B may not have outstanding Italian food, but the service and enviornment are great for a cheap meal. I recommend the pizza and garlic bread. Posted by Anonymous on 01/24/2011 Great Simple Italian American Food Great pizza, paninis, salads, etc. Quick service eat in or take out. Fun accommodating owner. Nothing fancy. Good food. Posted by anonymous on 06/13/2010 don't order the lasagna I pick up a slice form 11B at least once a week and am always satisfied. Tonight i decided to order in the lasagna and a side of garlic bread. It takes a lot to mess up lasagna but they managed to make it worse then chef boyrde. The pasta was so over cooked it tasted like it had been sitting in hot water for days. The cheese was cheap and artificial, the sauce was runny and bland and the meet was bland. In short, do not order the lasagna, stick to the pizza. Garlic bread was tasty! Posted by scott on 03/05/2010 solid e.village pizza i live down the street and order from these guys all the time. i've tried most of the pizza places nearby but always come back to 11B. salads are pretty good too. Posted by anonymous on 02/17/2010 subpar The quality is poor and the food is just plain bad Great Quality Food This place serves amazing quality food. the staff is friendly and the owners are very nice. I eat there almost everyday and i have never had a problem. I am so happy to see this Manhattan style Deli in Brooklyn. Posted by Anonymous on 01/17/2011 the only 24 hrs nearby the hospital the food could have been more diverse and "healthy", and you can get the same dishses but bigger and cheaper closer to subway station. in the same time it's the only 24 hrs place, it's right in front of ER and so the flow is predictably HIGH the service is good and people working there are very nice, but you can see how they are overworked and tired. I belive their shifts are not much easier than the ones residents are taking I think the management attitude should be better than it is to the staff Posted by David on 12/20/2010 Excellent place Great food, excellent service and friendly staff. This place is open 24hrs./7 days a week so its very convenient. I have breakfast and lunch here everyday. Great Great Food...Great People...Enjoy! Try to get a seat at the bar...a bit loud at the tables Posted by Domenic Licastro on 02/20/2011 Too much sauce Nice overall experience. Apps are wonderful pasta was drenched in sauce Not the way Mario teaches us to prepare pasta on his shows! Posted by Gramercy Gal on 12/12/2010 Wonderful Meal Had my friend OTTO experience last week with friend who are regulars. Dennis took exceptional care of us. Upon our entering there weren't seats for the three of at the bar where we wanted to dine. Before I knew what was happening, we had Prosecco in our hands and were toasting the night while waiting for space. About 10 minutes later space cleared and sat and began our meal with vegetables, a lovely souffle and spot on bottle of red. We shared a pizza as a main course which was lovely as well. My ONLY food complaint was the pizza was a little too salty for my palate. Just a little... but all things considered minor points off I attribute there were well made up for in every other aspect of the food, impeccable service, and overall value of the meal. OTTO is a real treat of a meal. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Posted by CuisineCrazy on 08/07/2010 Consistenly Satisfying I've eaten here about a dozen times since opened by Mario Batali, always for lunch. Otto is a very casual restaurant with high quality food and wine, ultra-fresh ingredients and a very warm and knowlegeable staff. If you prefer grazing, a great meal can be consumed sampling the various antipaste, about $7 or $8 each. The pizza is stupendous, more gastronomic than your neighborhood pie. The expresso is top, as good as in Italy. I will always return, when I find myself in the West Village at lunchtime. Posted by Michael gambino on 05/24/2010 Great Place Otto is such a great restaurant that when I am away from it too long I go into withdrawal. Sit at the bar and let the bartenders suggest wine and cheese, and then order the carbonera. Finish with a gelato, an espresso, and an amaro digestivo. Consider it a tune-up. Posted by anonymous on 05/17/2010 good food, great for groups, poor design! This is a standby amongst me and my friends, cant go wrong w the cheese and rustic vegetables...I'm not crazy about the pastas as they are a bit too aldente for me but the pizzas are also great and so is the wine selection. Everyone should try the olive oil gelato. Its special, different and delicious. however, after my last visit at Otto I decided to write this review b/c its strange to me how such a great and nice restuarant has such a poor bathroom. the placement of the door to the stalls makes no sense (in the ladies room) there is always a crowd inside that is constantly getting hit by the main door. its also hot and small. I know its not necessarily a reflection on the food, especially since its not a dirty bathroom..but I felt it needs to be said! Hopefully if they ever renovate they will consider changing up the ladies room so we wont hold it in and rush to get home! Posted by bertman on 03/01/2010 Nice restaurant My wife and I ate a late lunch there last weekend. They were very busy at the time, but we were promptly seated at a two top in the middle of the restaurant. It turned out to be a great table to watch the show, but conveniently away from some larger tables with rambunctious kids. She had the pasta amatriciana, and I had the pasta puttanesca. Both were good, not great. The waiter recommended we try two gelatos - olive oil and dark chocolate. I was reluctant about the former, but it was excellent and the dark chocolate was exceptional. We''ll be talking about those desserts for a long time. We'd definitely go back. Outstanding On Thur Feb. 24 my wife and I enjoyed a very nice dinner. The service and food was outstanding. When I made our rev. I mentioned it was our Annv. 2 weeks later when we had dinner they remembed and gave us a desert and wine with them for our Annv. Our waiter was Jason and Maria who was very nice and thankfull. When we go back we will asked for them again. Again it was a very nice dinner. Thank you Posted by The Russo's on 02/26/2011 Fabulous My husband and I were there for the first time, and all I can say is I can't wait to go back. The service was great, and the food was just as great. I'm first generation Italian, and the only thing better than this was my mothers cooking, and this is darn close...... I'd recommend Becco in a heartbeat! Don't miss the chance for a great night out, you'll love it! Posted by Larry C. on 02/12/2011 Will continue to go! My Girlfriend and I were there during the Christmas Season, on a Saturday night with two other couples, close friends. One had recommended we go there for dinner .. I have to tell you, I have eaten in many fine resturants all over this country and in N.Y.C., "Becco" is without a doubt one of the finest places to spend an evening and enjoy all they have to offer.... As I sit here and read these reviews, I think to myself these people do not know nor have they the slightest idea what a good Resturant is.. Oh and by the way we are going into the City tonight for a Valentine's dinner with the same two couples. Posted by the six of us on 01/10/2011 disappointment our waitress was wonderful reservation was right on time selection of wine was great salads and appetizers and the hummus was delicious but the signature dish was uncooked, cold, not tasty, watery, and such a tremendous disappointment that i will definitely not recommend this restaurant to anyone i like. lidia needs to go back and beat up chef Gallagher back into meeting up to her standards Posted by Mary on 12/08/2010 Very Disappointing On December 1, 2010, my family went to Becco. We were seated upstairs in a very drafty section near an enclosed patio. Our table of four was directly in front of a table of two, so we were all elbow to elbow. The service was not good. We had our appetizer and 25 minutes later our salad came. Our daughter got the pasta special, which was brought 15 minutes before the rest of the meals. Very awkward! The food was less than adequate, very mediocre. This was not our first visit to Becco, but will definitely be our last for a long time. There are too many other really great eateries in NYC to go back to Becco. Posted by Gina on 11/22/2010 Great eats Visited for first time. We were not disappointed. Everything was cooked to perfection. We are looking forward to our next visit. Service was spot on. Atmosphere was very cozy. Posted by leemarie on 11/21/2010 Love This Restaurant We come to NY at least 4-5 times a year and Becco is always the first place we eat. We love the pasta dishes, the service has always been great, and the wait staff have come to know us and treat us like family. We look forward to Thanksgiving at Becco this year! It was Great We had Thearter tickets for five.We made reservation for Nov 11th at 6:30.We had not wait.Were seated right away upstairs.Server came over and asked if we had theater tickets.We told her yes. Our order was taken and the food came with very little delay. The meal was very good.We all ordered something differant and everything was worth the price.As our order came i asked for the bill so i could pay.We got to the theater with 15 minutes to spare.Saw ELF and it was a very good play.The night worked out very well thanks to the restaurant.I will return! Posted by Jo on 10/25/2010 What a disappointment I have been to Becco several times as well as to several other of Lidia's restaurants, including Felidia's. The service here was poor. We had a reservation for 6:30 but they sooo overbook so we did not get a table until 7:10. We ordered immediately and told the waiter that we had theater tickets for that evening His response was "Yea, and so do thousands of other people." At 7:30 we told him time was short and his response was that he could not cook the food so what did we want. Posted by Ali on 10/19/2010 Poor service and decent pasta We waited over an hour after we made a reservation. Nearly every member of the wait staff had a major attitude problem. The food was pretty good for the deal they offer, but not worth the unpleasant service and aggravation of the waiting in addition to the wait staff. Posted by Pete on 10/09/2010 Don't Go Here Do yourself a favor and skip Becco. The food is nothing special, the service is bad, and the atmosphere needs a serious makeover. Not sure why people line up for this place. There are so many better options. If you come to NYC and want good italian food this isn't the place to find it. Posted by Lilly on 10/08/2010 Love this restaurant! This is a great place to eat...we come back time and time again, and e live here. Is it crowded? It is. Is it loud? It is. Is it New York City? YES! We love the food, the service - all of it. Posted by Fran Reese on 09/30/2010 Not recommended I live in the city and have been to a lot of restaurants and this one is one of the most disappointing. We expected it to be good since it is owned by a celebrity chef. We ordered the pasta special and all three pastas were overcooked and bland. The tomato sauce was like something you get out of a jar. The waiter was pushy and inattentive. They put us in the back room which was very warm. Posted by Evelyn on 08/30/2010 Sat. Night Disappointment I was so excited to be eating at a restaurant owned by "Lydia", she taught me so many great Italian meals from her cooking shows. I have her cookbooks and use them alot. What a disappointment to finally go to Becco and just hate the food. Does Lydia even go to her restaurants and check the food quality out? Was it bad because we all ordered the pasta house special meal? I love the sauce on pastas, that''s what makes the pasta worth eating. The sauce on all three pasta dishes served were so bland and tasteless. The company at my table were requesting to have the pepper, salt and parmesan cheese passed around a little too much. I am a New Yorker and felt like you were trying to put over on a tourist from out of town. Sad, Sad!! The wait staff were great!! Service was great!! But I wouldn't go back for the food! 

Rose Pistola is a great restaurant featuring excellent California style Italian food. 
Buca Giovanni is a very authentic Italian restaurant in a romantic basement deep in North Beach. It's always reliable with great food and has been around for years. A meal runs around $30 per person.
The Stinking Rose has excellent vegeterian pasta at low prices in a cafe style atmosphere. Located in the trendy Marina District.
Il Fornaio is a California chain, but has great Italian authentic food in a romantic atmosphere. Excellent bakeries in the restaurant and in a nice park (Levi's Plaza). About $70 for two.
Caffee Macaroni is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach.
North Beach Restaurant. Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks).
Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..." (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person.
Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro. Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu.
I tried a new Italiana restaurant in the Castro (on Market St.) Repastoria Satyricon. The food was great (I had a salmon and pasta dish and my partner had the polenta), the ambience was warm and cozy, and there was a decent selection of wines by the glass. Service was very attentive also.
We have eaten at Quattros for many years now and we have always eaten very well. The service is courteous and efficient. The choice of food is extensive and the quality excellent. The fillet steak is especially good and is served with one of three very different and very good sauces. Easily the best restaurant within the Lancaster area.
I have been to Pietruccio's a few times now and every single time I have visited I have been blown away with the quality of food and value for money, not to mention the very friendly staff and chef Pino himself. The 'Gourmet Menu' in which the previous Review from Peter refers to is an absolute must if you are thinking of paying Pietruccio's a visit. I would recommend this to anyone who loves quality ingredients, isn't afraid to try something new and likes the excitement of not knowing what is coming next. It consists of 7 different courses and in my opinion each a very substantial amount. I have had the Gourmet Menu 3 times now and had completely different courses each time (apart from Pino's amazing Hazelnut ice cream which is to die for) and everytime I have came out planning my next visit! If you are someone who really appreciates TRUE Italian food (and not the chains who think huge bowls of pasta and fried breaded mozzarela sticks constitues a good Italian meal) which uses fresh local ingredients then this is definitely the place to be and I guarantee you will keep going back
Have just returned from what I can only say was a fabulous eating experience.The staff were very attentive and most welcoming,the surroundings very tranquil and the food was just sublime.... My husband and I enjoyed the food so much that the plates were wiped clean with the bread so as not to waste anything.When can I go back please:)
Not the first time I have visited Pietruccio's and how the times have changed for them. I don't often write reviews but after reading so many which extol their culinary and dining virtues and excellence, I have to disagree quite strongly. Apart from their food being extremely overpriced, pretentiously so in fact (for an Italian restaurant, I mean it's not as if we're short of choice in that department) the waiting staff were rude to me and the party of friends with whom I was dining, so rude in fact that one particular waitress was bordering on argumentative and quite publicly so. I have never been so embarrassed in all of my dining experiences. Had we have been a group of yobs, their responses may well have been justified but then, they price such clientel out of their market, the only plus point on their pricing structure, I feel. There was no menu, which I was surprised at and food just kept arriving every twenty minutes or so without choice or warning though when we expected the pre-requested coffee course (it took over ten minutes from the end of dessert for us to lose patience and put a discreet hand in the air) coffee never arrived. When questioned about this, the waitress again became very abrupt. I am incensed that patrons paying through the nose for what THEY want us to eat and in very small portions it must be said, can be treated in such a poor, rude and dismissive manner. Food was above average but not spectacular and not on par with previous visits, portions very small and certainly NOT worth their exorbitant price-tag. I shall never return to this restaurant ever again and forewarn others likewise and my friends and family feel the same. Overall, a teeth-pulling, embarrassing and awful night which cost a small fortune for the privilege. 
The Renezio is the most authentic styled resto i've been to in london, i feel like im in north italy, quite a cute place, atmosphere is very authentic, and decoration is amazing, i asked the owner and they have swedish wood tables which are rli old. the food is delicious even if presentation isnt exactly like gordon ramsey. they have some homemade desert is rli yummy. although the cd of music they play catches a bit its really great like atourist attraction.
It doesn't take long. Within a minute of arriving at The Italian the proprietor - the Italian - is at my side. I cannot lie to you: this veteran of the Melbourne restaurant scene knows my face, as do I his.
"It's only taken you nine months," says Roberto Scheriani, the restaurant's namesake. He means it's nine months since I visited his restaurant one night - then perhaps just a month old - only to leave with a kind of uninspired, neutral feeling about the place. There was nothing bad about it. Or particularly good, aside from a plate of crumbed lamb's brains, for that matter. The menu, feel, food . . . seen it all before, mate. It seemed to me I had the makings of a review not worth reading. Or writing.
So, I decided to wait and see how the place carried a bit of age and experience. And I gather this irked the restaurateur, who misguidedly believes in that old expression about all publicity. Or maybe his faith in the whole experience was greater than that of my reality at the time.
In either case, I interpret the confrontation and genuine smile this day as a real welcome. So welcome, in fact, that my guest, who has slipped in early to retrieve the Friday lunch reservation in his own name, is summoned from Siberia - a lofty mezzanine table that would be fine if the place were packed - downstairs to the much smarter, among-the-action table that I, the Lazarus-like VIP, have been ushered to.
Nobody ever said restaurants were democratic.
Scheriani had Ristorante Roberto and, later, the R-Bar, in Port Melbourne. His new place, in a side street below the Mercer Building, in Flinders Lane, offers a kind of modern warehouse feel, with soaring, semi-industrial exposed ceilings and big windows to the lane which enhances that recycled laneways/loft feel. Some of these windows have jigsawed screens in a kind of Moorish pattern. There are timber floors and a long, pinky-brown marble bar/servery. It's the kind of place that needs customers in order to feel inhabited. It didn't have them then but it does now.
It has a very useful little entrance/balcony where the unreconstructed can combine fresh air with tobacco smoke. And perched over the long dining room is the aforementioned mezzanine for private dos, or overflow, or poorly credentialed first-timers.
A welcome addition, along with the (mostly male) clientele is a series of very large, bold and contemporary canvases high above the bar; they add some humanity to what was a little stark and plain. At the table, everything is regulation modern bistro: good white linen, classic cutlery, butter on the table, excellent Dench bread, decent glassware. There are no obvious holes; the place has a good feel, certainly at lunch.
Caesar's Restaurant has been in San Francisco for over 50 years, and I have been going there for at least 20 of those years. The food is served family style, it's authentic Italian, and the waitstaff is some of the best I've had and very friendly.
You certainly can't go wrong with the voted "City's Best" calamari that is fried to perfection. The veal steak (when available) is to die for, and their famous crab cioppino, available Tuesday thru Friday, is outrageous. Their pastas are wonderful, and if you’re lucky, you'll go on a night when chef-owner Matteo Crivello serves his Italian short ribs that melt in your mouth, a real treat.
The decor sets you back to the 50s era of what a gentlemen’s club might have been like. Italian light fixtures in the main dining room offer a soft glow. The leather, high back booths offer a bit of privacy, yet have an openness about them. The bar in the front is dark wood, and runs the length of the room, and has an inviting feel.
The restaurant also serves a five-course meal for a very reasonable price. They start you with antipasti, which includes an array of Italian meats and pickled vegetables. The next course is the wonderful minestrone soup, followed by a house salad. If you’re not too full, you choose from one of three entrees, which is followed by coffee, Italian spumoni ice cream, or Bugia, which is a type of thin Italian cookie dusted with powdered sugar and is made fresh at the restaurant daily. These are a must-have to end the meal. They instantly melt in your mouth. You can't find these anywhere else! They also have a hot zabaione, which is smooth and creamy, and if you have room, don't pass this up!
Their standard menu offers a large selection of choices as well as nightly specials.
We selected a Three Course dinner, but the restaurant added an extra fourth course:
Course #1. Assorted Antipasti: Plate of three cold cuts, marinated white cannelloni beans, tomatoes with mozzarella cheese.
Course #2. Soup or Salad: My fiancé ordered the minestrone soup, and I had a small shrimp mix green salad.
Course #3. Capellini with Neapolitan sauce. (Compliments of the chef)
Course #4. My fiancé ordered the Cannelloni alla Romana, which was filled with a delightful blend of pork, veal, and spinach and baked until golden brown, all smothered with cheese in a zesty tomato sauce. I ordered the special, Sicilian Seafood Pasta, which consisted of clams, mussels, white fish, salmon, and Dungeness crab served over a bed of linguine with a light and spicy tomato sauce.
Course #5. Dessert: Bugia (Sicilian cookies) with coffee.
Beverages: I had a Campari and soda while my fiancé enjoyed a glass of Chardonnay at the antique 50-60 year-old bar. It is worth sitting there and having a cocktail and taking in the surroundings of what old San Francisco might have been like back then.
There is one reason we keep going back, it's classic San Francisco North Beach Italian comfort food that will put a smile on your face every time. Simply put, I can't think of anywhere better to experience that then at Caesar’s Restaurant.
Caesar's really is old school. When it comes to true Italian restaurants, they excel in every aspect. The service is friendly and authentic, and everyone was extremely hospitable. Walking in without any reservations, the kind hostess seated us immediately. The layout is a bit funny, as there are three separate rooms that make up the restaurant, but our table in the room adjacent to the bar was comfortable.
Immediately, I noticed that we were surrounded by families. Grandparents, their children, and their grandchildren were seated on all sides of us, and everyone was having a great time. My boyfriend and I (probably the only couple under 50) thoroughly enjoyed our Sicilian waiter and were served very quickly.
For a meat eater, their menu is really extensive. I ordered the gnocchi (my favorite Italian food), but they were completely out, so I opted for the capellini pasta, which was nice and light with just the right amount of chunky red sauce. The boyfriend had prosciutto and melon for a starter, which he really liked. He ordered the seafood combination plate for an entree.
The prices were very reasonable, even for the seven-course meal, which we both thought about getting, but we had to catch a show at Cobb's and figured the multiple courses would take a bit more time than we had to spare. Between dishes, the waiter brought over a plate of pasta with meat sauce for him to enjoy, which was a really nice touch. We weren't sure if it was because he didn't order a pasta dish for his entree, or because they just do that to keep people busy while they're waiting for their food. I noticed he did that for every other table as well, so it was a nice little bonus for him.
The decor is very classic and simple, but one thing I didn't really like was the lighting -- it was almost like a cafeteria inside the dining rooms. The interiors weren't ugly, but an update on the decor might make it just that much more interesting. We went in thinking it would be just a mediocre Italian place, but everything we had was great and the service was fantastic. Overall, we were very happy with our experience at Caesar's and will probably return in the coming weeks.
I can appreciate (and truly enjoy) hip gourmet Italian restaurants like Delfina or Beretta, but I’m also grateful for places like Caesar’s Italian Restaurant with its comfortable Old World atmosphere, the tuxedoed waiters, the white tablecloths, and the dining room bustle of large, multi-generational families. It’s not the kind of restaurant I tend to frequent, so I was immediately happy to be there.
We were a group of eight, and each of us ordered the seven-course meal, for which Caesar’s is known. With any entrée (and for roughly $30.00) you get a salad, vegetable soup, assorted antipasti, pasta with meat sauce, dessert, and coffee. The salad was fairly plain in appearance -- iceberg lettuce, slivers of carrot, a slice of beet -- but the mystery dressing (some kind of Italian/Thousand Island concoction), was surprisingly good. And everyone raved about the vegetable soup -- simple and warm, perfect for the cold night.
The assorted antipasti arrived as a group of shared plates -- there were the usual Italian meats and cheeses, green olives, marinated mushrooms, some kind of mystery vegetable that was covered in a slightly spicy sauce. Particularly good was the calamari, which tasted more like a ceviche -- lemony and cold. Of all the courses, this was my favorite, but also the most problematic.
The plates arrived all at once, with none of the waiters identifying what was what (I’m still unclear what that mystery vegetable was). We also were unclear if the calamari we’d ordered separately as an appetizer was the same calamari as the ceviche (it wasn’t). But the course was delicious, which perhaps was why we were so bummed out by the portions. While seven courses is certainly filling, we each had about two bites of the antipasti items. From the look of things, the antipasti for eight could have been the antipasti for two, and some of the items were taken away before we were finished with them.
Next was a saucer of penne pasta with meat sauce. It was fine, but nothing I needed to finish.
For my entrée, I ordered the veal scaloppine. The meat was tender, coated lightly with flour, and covered with mushrooms in a Marsala sauce. It was tasty, though not necessarily better than any other veal scaloppine I’d had before (I preferred my friend’s veal piccata and its pleasant, lemony flavor). Most of the entrees came with potatoes and a boiled vegetable that was either bok choy or kale (we couldn’t decide which) and they each served their purpose: a starch and something green. Other entrees at the table were the gnocchi, the pork chop, and the (somewhat greasy) halibut. I tasted each of them, and all were perfectly good. In fact, “perfectly good” is a fair assessment of Caesar’s food as a whole -- nothing surprising, just solid fare that one would expect from an old style Italian family restaurant.
Spumoni and coffee ended the meal. The spumoni was fine (Dreyer’s?) and the coffee was predictably mediocre.
The service was good, if a little frenetic, which I didn’t really mind. Given the chaos in the dining room (the place was packed), I was impressed that our waiter was able to maintain his charming demeanor, and after initially forgetting our calamari appetizer, he brought it to us on the house.
Though a bit pricey for what you get (about $50.00 a person), it might be fun to return with a large group of friends. The food at Caesar’s is fine, but it’s not the reason to come; there’s better to be had in North Beach or the Mission, and you can avoid the schlep to Caesar’s Fisherman’s Wharf location.
For me, Caesar’s is about atmosphere: the good bustle of multi-ethnic and multi-generational diners -- many of whom seemed like regulars -- celebrating birthdays and anniversaries. The waitstaff was friendly, conversational, even a little theatrical in the moments they stopped to chat. And the restaurant itself, with its vinyl booths, family photo-covered walls, and (what seemed to be) silk plants, felt authentic in its own way: it’s a restaurant that insists on being itself, which makes for a welcoming and comfortable dining experience for all who visit.
Earlier this week my wife and I celebrated our 19th wedding anniversary at RoSals Restaurant on Taylor Street. This ten table restaurant serves up some of the best Sicilian style cuisine in the neighborhood with a very extensive pasta list to choose from. Among the pastas are traditional dishes like Rigatoni Arrabbiata, Sweet Annolotti and Homemade Raviolis. The veal, fish, beef and chicken dishes are straight out of Sicily.
This restaurant was opened in 1990 by Salvatore and Rosanne Perry who lived in the Little Italy neighborhood for years before opening this nice little Italian restaurant. There is nothing better than a family owned restaurant.
When you first walk into the dining room it seems like your walking into some ones home. The restaurant has a very warm and inviting atmosphere with photos lining the walls. We had early reservations on an off night, like I normally like to eat because I figure nobody will be there, but the place was so full by 7:30 they had to open the upstairs dining room. Any restaurant in the city would kill for that kind of business.
We first ordered a bottle of Righetti Valpolicella 2004 to start off the evening. We drink much better when we’re out with the “Wine Guys”. For appetizers we ended up ordering the Stuffed Mushroom and the Stuffed Artichoke, needless to say we were stuffed before the entrees, but that didn’t stop us.
When it came to the entrées my wife broke my rule about ordering steak at an Italian restaurant but at least the sautéed spinach that it came with was made Sicilian style. So anyway she ordered the Filet Mignon with cracked black pepper but instead got the steak covered with crushed red pepper flakes which was rather disappointing though the steak was very good.
I ordered the Veal Steppanjohnno which is similar to the Breaded Veal recipe I recently posted. It’s an excellent dish that we enjoyed very much. There was a great flavor combination going on with the veal, vegetables, prosciutto and provolone that we enjoyed very much.
For dessert we had a Lemoncello Zabaglione that was so light and airy it complimented the dinner perfectly.
All in all, RoSals is a nice casual place with excellent Sicilian food. Bring the whole family to enjoy this little Italian restaurant in the heart of Little Italy.
Check out their menu at Rosal’s Italian Cucina located at 1154 West Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607. For much needed reservations call 312-243-2357.
I ended up at a dinner party this week at Biaggis Ristorante Italiano in Deer Park, Illinois. Chef and managing partner, Tony Marlotti, prepared some wonderful dishes to compliment the wines we tasted.
Biaggis Ristorante Italiano is a chain of around twenty gourmet Italian restaurants serving many traditional favorites plus special creations cooked up by the Executive Chef. When you first enter the restaurant the wide open décor is warm and inviting. A large bar area separates the main dining area and a private dining area is separate from everyone else. This is where we had our dinner.
When we entered the private dining area a beautiful display table was set up by Biaggi’s beverage team that displayed all of the wines that were being served that evening. The event was hosted by The Shilling & Kramer, who imported the wines from the Piedmont region of Italy and Bacchus Wine Company, who distributes the wines here in Illinois.
Again I find myself surrounded by wine experts. Though I’m not a novice. I’ve been in this business long enough to have tasted some pretty great wines.
As far as the food was concerned, Chef Marlotti did a great job in creating some very unique dishes to pair with the wines that were being served. We were first served “Insalata con Rucola”, which was a light arugala salad with figs and nuts. A great start to a great evening.
The first wine that was served was “De Faveri Colli Trevigiani Spago Prosecco”. This wine was a nice light dry sparkling wine with a little nutty flavor to it and went very well with the “Gamberi al Erbe, Fungi e Patate” , which is herb crusted shrimp with caramelized mushrooms and roasted potatoes served in a shrimp stock. An excellent dish for this wine.
Next we tasted a bottle of “Mauro Veglio Barbera d’Alba 2005” which was full and robust in flavor with a bouquet of spices and fruit. This wine was served with “Campanelle con Ceci e Cavolfiore” which is flowered shaped pasta tossed with chickpeas and cauliflower in a zesty sauce. This dish turned out to be one of my favorites and went very well with the choice of wine.
The next dish was my absolute favorite. We were served “Pollo e Melanzane Arrabiata” which was a roasted chicken wrapped with eggplant with a sweet spicy tomato sauce. This excellent dish was paired with an excellent bottle of Mauro Veglio Dolceito 2005”. Unfortunately we all agreed at the table the food and the wine was great separately but didn’t pair up that well together.
The other entrée was “Agnello Arrostato al Tartufo” which is a roasted lamb that was served with black truffles, cipolin onions and cavolo nero Italian black cabbage with a veal reduction. An excellent choice for the “Mauro Veglio Casteletto Borolo 2001 that we tasted. Though the lamb could have been rarer for my taste, the dish was a great show of creativity.
To end the evening we were served “Pesche Ripieni alla Piedmontese” which is stuffed peaches with zabaglione. A light and simple dessert that truly complimented the entire menu.
Biaggis Ristorante Italiano is located at 20560 North Rand Road, Deer Park, Illinois 60010. For reservations phone 847-438-1850 or visit their website at www.biaggis.com.
What can I say about a Chicago landmark that has been in business for eighty years. The Italian Village Restaurants has been owned and operated by the Capitanini family since 1927 and has been successful ever since. Alfred Capitanini, who immigrated to this country, offered authentic Italian cuisine at a very good price.
Years ago I would go to the Village often and have always enjoyed the atmosphere and the food. Service is always top notch since a majority of the staff has been around for quite some time I’m sure they have everything down to a science by now.
The Italian Village has three restaurants under one roof, “The Village”, “La Cantina” and “Vivere” and boasts the largest wine cellars in the Midwest. All three restaurants share a 45,000 bottle wine list, which sommelier Ron Balter maintains on a daily basis.
My wife and I decided on eating at “The Village” located on the second floor. Designed like a little Italian town, “The Village” is a very cozy and romantic place to dine.
We started with an order of “Baked Clams Oreganata” and an Italian antipasto which was excellent. Baked clams have always been my favorite since I was young.
For our entrees we ended up ordering the “Rotolo di Polo” which was chicken rolled with sausage, prosciutto and sage and served with fettuccini alfredo and my wife’s all time favorite “Pollo alla Vesuvio” which is served with Vesuvius potatoes and loaded with herbs and garlic.
Needless to say both dishes were delicious but I especially enjoyed the “Rotolo di Polo”. The best “Chicken Vesuvio” we ever had was at “La Fontanella” on 24th and Oakley.
I don’t drink as well as when I’m with my wine guys, they usually bring something from their private collections to the table, but we did have a simple bottle of Lungaritti Pino Grigio which was fine with our meal.
To top off the evening we simply enjoyed coffee with Sambuca . This time we were just to full for dessert.
The Italian Village is the oldest Italian restaurant in Chicago and a great part of Italian-American history. They are located at 71 West Monroe. For reservations phone 312-332-7005 or visit their website at www.italianvillage-chicago.com
Trattoria No. 10 has been a Chicago favorite since 1989. It’s a great place to stop before the theater or after work. This place has a great bar, an elegant atmosphere and serves many original Italian dishes under the direction of Executive Chef Douglas D’Avico. If you work downtown or are just visiting the city, they have a marvelous bar buffet between 5:00 and 7:30 p.m.. The buffet includes shrimp cocktail, antipasti, pastas and salads. Perfect for an after work get together.
I went there for the first time with my two wine experts John and Chuck and we met another guy who’s opening a wine store. Needless to say I was out of my league when it came to the conversation but I’m still learning. They brought a few bottles for dinner and ended up ordering one off the menu. We started off with Ferarri Brut, a nice non vintage Italian sparkling wine. After that we drank a bottle of 1999 Zine Humbrecht Riesling and ended up with a great bottle of 2001 Brolio Barolo for dinner.
Dinner was excellent. Trattoria No. 10 specializes in homemade ravioli, seafood, fresh risotto and pastas. The risotto with smoked mozzarella, spinach and Parmigiano Reggiano served with four slices of tender skirt steak was to die for. I just couldn’t get enough of this wonderful dish. The smoked flavor of the mozzarella just set this dish apart from any other. Executive Chef Doug D'Avico was nice enough to share this Risotto with Grilled Skirt Steak recipe. Thanks Chef, I appreciate it.
Along with the risotto we ordered the farfalle pasta with duck confit, asparagus, mushrooms, pearl onions and pine nuts. Both dishes were a great choice before the entrees arrived.
Two of our guests order filets which you don’t particularly need to go to an Italian restaurants to order. If I want steak I’ll go to one of our many excellent steak houses in the city, not to an Italian restaurant.
One of my friends ordered the veal scaloppini which was cooked to perfection. Served with roasted asparagus, artichokes, sage and lemon garlic and wine, this dish is an excellent choice for anyone who loves veal.
I finally decided on the cavatappi pasta with beef tenderloin, mushrooms, roasted red onions, red wine and parmesan cheese. Though a little oily for my taste, it was still almost as good as the risotto.
A great place in the heart of downtown Chicago.
Trattoria No. 10 is located at 10 North Dearborn. Their menu changes daily but you can visit their site at www.trattoriaten.com for more information and reservations.
After dinner at Trattoria No. 10 I decided to venture off into Chicago’s nightlife to see if anything has changed since I’ve worked down on Rush Street. I stopped by the infamous Jilly's, across from Gibson’s to visit a few friends that I haven’t seen in along time. I had worked for the Jilly’s organization for many years and I was wondering how the place has changed since I left, so as long as I was out I decided to stop in.
For those of you not familiar with Jilly’s let me give you a little history. Jilly Rizzo was Frank Sinatra’s best friend and a friend of Nick Caruso Sr., who founded Jilly’s on May 6, 1995. Uncle Nick, as we affectionately called him, opened Jilly’s Piano Bar at 1007 North Rush Street to pay tribute to Jilly, Sinatra and his music. One of the best parts of working there was hearing Uncle Nick tell some of his great Sinatra stories.
I couldn’t keep track of the celebrities that walk through the doors almost on a daily basis. I remember Don Rickles, who was there celebrating one of his birthdays, giving me a twenty dollar tip and saying “Always take care of the man who takes care of the bar”. Not to mention Rita Moreno dancing around like she just came out of “West Side Story”. One of the best times was walking into Jilly’s Piano Bar and there was Tom Jones singing with the band or when Uncle Nick hosted the Italian American Sports Hall of Fame dinners and the room was full of legendary sportsmen like Jake LaMotta, Tony Esposito, Carmine Basilio and Mohammed Ali. These are just a few of the people that came in to see Uncle Nick when they were in town and the list goes on and on. We definitely had some great times at Jilly’s.
Unfortunately, Nick Caruso Sr. passed away this past July and will be dearly missed. Thanks Uncle Nick for the opportunity of working for you and for the memories that will last me a lifetime.
Jilly’s has been one of the most remarkable entertainment venues on Rush St. for many years. With entertainment such as Nick Russo and Bobby Thorton you can't go wrong. When you walk into the place you know your in for a good time. Dance all night or sit back and enjoy some of their signature cocktails. This is definitely the place to see and be seen. Tables are always reserved so it's best to phone first.
If your in the Naperville area make sure you visit my friend Nick Caruso Jr., who is managing Jilly’s West in the heart of downtown Naperville at 103 South Main Street. Nick is keeping the torch alive by bringing you same quality entertainment you would experience on Rush Street.
Jilly’s Piano Bar is open seven days a week 5:00p.m. to2:00a.m., 3:00a.m. on Saturday. Visit their website at www.jillyschicago.com or phone 312-664-1001
Jilly’s West is open Monday through Saturday between 8:00p.m. to 2:00a.m., 3:00a.m. on Saturday. Phone 630-355-1001
Over forty years ago Connies Pizza opened in a small store front in my Bridgeport neighborhood on 26th Street. Today Connie's has many locations throughout the city, a fleet of delivery trucks and a thriving catering and frozen food division.
It seems like just yesterday I walked over to 26th Street to grab a slice of their delicious pizza. Now, the Connie’s on Archer Avenue is a huge warehouse like structure designed with Italian canned goods and antiques. The interior’s bare brick walls are filled with vintage posters and the sounds of Sinatra, Dean Martin and Louie Prima play throughout the restaurant.
The other day we took our son Joey over there for his tenth birthday and had a very nice time. We ate mozzarella wedges, fried zucchini, pizza, ribs and fried chicken. Yes, we had plenty of leftovers which I ate for my midnight snack. It wasn’t a good idea but a tasty one.
My son could live the rest of his life on mozzarella sticks and pizza and drives me crazy when it comes to eating any of my food. My daughter Alexa, on the other hand, eats like she’s the only one in the house. Needless to say I have no problem with her eating things I cook.
Anyway as far as Connie’s is concerned the pizza was by far better than anything else though the mozzarella and zucchini were excellent. It was a Wednesday evening and the place was full of families. There were large tables of people celebrating birthdays and just having a great time. It’s a nice casual place to take the kids for some delicious tasting pizza and will always be a family favorite.
For reservations or delivery you can visit there website at: www.conniespizza.com
Early Saturday afternoon I received a phone call from my friend John from Bacchus Wines here in Chicago. He said “Be ready by 4:30 we’re going out to dinner. You haven’t done a review lately and you need another one.” He was right I haven’t been out in a while and I needed to get things done. He told me we were going to an Italian restaurant on the North side but wouldn’t tell me which one.
We arrived at a place called Terragusto Italian Café and Market in the Roscoe Village neighborhood. It was a small joint with about ten tables and doesn’t sell liquor so you have to bring your own bottle which a lot of people don’t seem to mind now a day even though I do. Anyway, in the front window was a pasta making area where they make fresh pasta daily plus all the dishes are made completely with organic ingredients. Nice surprise, I knew I was in for something different from the start.
While we waited for our friend Chuck from Oenos Wine Imports to arrive John opened a non-vintage De Favari Prosseco, a very nice sparkling wine to start off the evening. He also decanted a 1996 bottle of Castelle Di Rampole Sammarco which was excellent with our first course. When Chuck arrived he brought a 2005 bottle of Thursten Wolf Vinognor Pinot Gris and the highlight of the evening, a 1979 Bruno Giacosa Barbaresco. There’s definitely an advantage to dining with two wine connoisseurs.
Now on to the food. Like traditional Italian dining , the food is served in courses. Terragusto recommends sharing and so do I. This is a great way for everyone to try the different dishes they have to offer. We started with an appetizer combination which was served with a nice crostini (grilled bread rubbed with olive oil). The appetizers were good but uneventful. A simple plate of fresh mozzarella, mussels, hard boiled eggs and fresh shredded vegetables were served with some delicious roasted brussel sprouts.
We had our choice of three pasta dishes and two meat or fish dishes. We decided on the “Tagliatelle con Patate, Fagiolini, Nocciola e Pecorino Romano” which is whole grain tagliatelle pasta with potatoes, green beans, and walnuts topped with a salty aged sheep’s milk cheese. I was different in texture and not full of flavor though the pasta was cooked to perfection. Next we tried the “Pasticcio alla Gnocchi di Semola” which seemed like I couldn’t get enough of. This dish of semolina Swiss chard dumplings baked with sage, sweet gorgonzola and parmigiano cheese was a nice change from some of the Italian meals I’ve ate. The best part of the whole dinner was the unbelievable “Pasta alla Bolognese”. All three of us agreed that this tagiatelle pasta dish with its creamy four meat sauce, tomatoes, red wine and parmigiano cheese was the best any of us ever had.
We also ordered the skirt steak and the pork which was served with yellow squash and grilled polenta. Again we all agreed it was good but uneventful. The meats just were not seasoned in the true Italian tradition which we were accustom too. Dessert was simple as it should be. The bread pudding was least desired but the maple cream panna cotta with julienne cut Granny Smith apples truely topped off the meal.
Would I eat at Terragusto again? Yes! Chef Theo Gilbert is exceptionally creative and the menu does change every week. Remember if you decide to go, make reservations in advance. The place is small and difficult to get into.
Terragust Italian Café and Market
1851 West Addison
Chicago, Illinoi 60613
1-773-248-2777
Gioco is a place I've been wanting to go too for quite some time now and I finally got the chance last week.
I've heard many good things about this restaurant from a number of people and let me tell you they were not exaggerating.
If your in the hospitality business in Chicago your well aware of co-owner Jerry Kliener and his partners expertise in opening restaurants. With the success of places like Marche, Red Light and Opera, it's no surprise that Gioco has become a very popular place in such a short time.
Located south of Roosevelt Road, in an area which is still being developed, Gioco is a great choice for dinner or drinks.
As soon as you walk in you can smell the wood burning stove which sets the mood for the rustic Italian dinner that follows.
The room is a large open space with brick walls, velvet curtains and high ceilings. The large bar is simply elegant with it's high shelves lined with books, wines and liquors. The open kitchen is another added plus. I love watching a kitchen at work.
My wife and I had reservations around six o'clock on a Thursday night. If you've been in the business as long as I have, you know to avoid the weekends if you want to relax and enjoy your meal. If you want to go on the weekends be prepared to wait for a table.
I looked up the menu on-line to get an idea of what we wanted before getting there. Unfortunately, I chose the "Costata Di Maiale" (12oz grilled pork chop) which was no longer on the menu. This is a detail that should be fixed in order not to disappoint any more of their guests in the future.
For appetizers we ordered the "Cozzi alla Marinara" which are steamed mussels with white wine, garlic and tomato and the "Melanzane Fritte". Both dishes were equally delicious.
For dinner I ended up ordering the "Brasato Di Maiale" which is braised pork that was served on a bed of creamy polenta. My wife had the "Costata Di Manzo con Funghi Trifolati" which is the wood-grilled 16oz ribeye with mushrooms.
The pork was tender and juicy and fell right off this huge bone sitting on my plate. The combination of flavor was just fantastic. This dish certainly made up for not having the pork chop. My wife mentioned that the steak was the best she ever had and can't wait to go back.
We finished up our dinner with a chocolate cake that topped the entire meal.
Gioco was definitely a great discovery.
Tufanos Vernon Park Tap is a place I will have a very hard time judging since I went there many times with my father when I was very young.
I went there for the first time recently in at least twenty years. The last time I was there was with my father and after seeing the menu I ordered the same thing I remembered he had the last time we were there.
My friend John. who owns Bacchus Wine Co., called me up last minute to go out to dinner. Undecided, I mentioned going to see Uncle Sonny who bar tends at Tufanos. Sonny was a good friend of my fathers and someone I haven't seen in a long time. I've missed him and thought about him many times throughout the years.
Tufanos Vernon Park Tap brought back many memories. Things I haven't thought about in years.
Anyway as far as the food, my friend ended up ordering the veal parmesan and I had the pork chops with sweet peppers which were out of this world.
I've always recommended their lemon chicken but I wanted to try something different.
Don't go there for the atmosphere or the service. Go there for the food. The pork chops were tender and delicious and my friend enjoyed the veal just the same.
If you don't mind reading a menu off of a chalk board in a very casual atmosphere make sure you stop by Tufanos and say hello to Uncle Sonny on a Saturday night.
This place had the best Italian food I've had in a long time. Besides my own of course.
Make sure you take time out to visit.
There's no website but you can call Tufanos at 1-312-733-3393 for reservations. They're located at 1073 West Vernon Park in the heart of Chicago's 'Little Italy".
If you live in Chicago or are just visiting, there is no place in town you would rather be at than The Joynt. If you don’t appreciate style and class then this is not the place for you. The Joynt is a luxurious four room nightclub that features some of the best live music, cocktails and ambiance this city has to offer and that’s just in one room. Depending on your mood you may choose to relax in the The Lounge or dance the night away in the downstairs Retro Club.
The Joynt opened in the trendy River North section of Chicago in April of 2008 and continues to attract a certain clientele who enjoy great music and a type of atmosphere you’ll only find in a Micky Spillane novel. It’s a type of place where gentlemen are gentlemen and ladies are ladies. There are not many places left in the city where people actually dress up before going out on a night on the town but the The Joynt is definitely that kind place.
The main attraction is not necessarily the music or the atmosphere but the owners and the staff. From the time you enter the door until the time you leave you are treated as if you’re a long lost friend or famiglia, like us Italians like to say. Whether you’re worth a million dollars or one hundred dollars you’ll be welcomed like you’ve been going there for years.
Stan Wozniak is the man behind the concept. I’ve worked for Stan for years at Bigg’s Restaurant, Jilly’s and Rizzo’s. If there is anything I learned from him is that everyone is treated like a V.I.P.. Stan makes sure his staff knows that from the very beginning.
That is why I know when you walk into The Joynt you’ll be greeted by a friendly staff, entertained by only the best musicians and mingle with some of the nicest people you’ll ever want to meet.
So if you into sophistication, a relaxed atmosphere, great music, dancing and top shelf drinks, then The Joynt is the place for you. I’ve been known to drop by on occasion. I’m the guy with the glass of Dewers on the rocks.
The Joynt is located at 650 North Dearborn Street on the corner or Erie and Dearborn. For advanced reservations for a table: Phone 1-312-573-2233.
Visit their website at The Joynt Chicago
I finally got a chance last week to dine at the newest Italian Taylor Street eatery Three Aces owned by my friends Anthony Potenzo (Jilly’s, Sushi Samba Rio, Gianiotti’s) and Lyle Aker (Five Star, Whiskey Sky, Whiskey Bar).
If you have ever eaten down on Taylor street then you know you can walk into a dozen restaurants serving the same traditional meals with Frank Sinatra or Dean Martin playing in the background. This is definitely not the case at Three Aces.
When you first arrive at Three Aces you’ll notice the sign. Not just any sign but a sign designed by the legendary Chicago artist Tony Fitzpatrick. Yes, not only can you see Tony’s work at the Art Institute of Chicago, MOMA in New York or in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Miami but now you can view it on Taylor Street. This alone should tell you your in for a great experience.
But there’s more, much more. When you enter Three Aces you enter Anthony and Lyle’s home. If there were beds in the back this is definitely what they’re apartment might look like. A huge bar with an extensive beer list, black booths, exposed brick walls, lighting salvaged from Joliet prison and rock and roll music playing throughout. If that doesn’t set the mood for the evening nothing will.
If your lucky you’ll be able to enjoy Executive Chef Matt Troost’s wonderful creations in one of the areas honoring literary giants Nelson Algren and Charles Bukowski. Or enjoy your Romano, sausage or braised chicken thigh pizzetta while sitting in the Tom Waits booth.
Anywhere you sit I’m sure you’ll enjoy the many delicacies Three Aces has to offer. Chef Matt Troost (Fianco) has created a menu that is to be enjoyed by all. His farm to table small plate Italian concept is a great way to share a meal with family and friends.
I went there to try the steak sandwich and ended up ordering the Arancini, which was lightly breaded, oozing with fontina cheese and served on a bed of braised oxtail. Then we moved on to the Pappardelle with the Bolognese sauce and the Pici, which is made in house and served topped with braised lamb, black olives, pine nuts and a cured egg yolk. As if this wasn’t enough we went on to order the Romano Pizzetta and finally the Steak Sandwich, which was drizzled with aioli and topped with caramelized onion and fontina cheese. Needless to say I couldn’t move when we were finished. What started out as I simple dinner ended up as a feast. Next time I'm going to order the burger. Looks good doesn't it?
Three Aces is definitely my favorite new hangout. If you love rock and roll and Italian food then Three Aces is the place you’ll want to be. So if your in the neighborhood stop by. You’ll eat like "the king", drink like "a writer" and be treated like a "rock star".
Three Aces is located at 1321 West Taylor St. in Chicago’s "Little Italy" (312-243-1577). They don’t take reservations and you can seat yourself. Just make sure you ask for Anthony or Lyle when you get there. To view there full menu and hours of operation visit Three Aces Chicago.com.
A charming and romantic two-story restaurant, Adelmo's is an ideal date spot. Italian and Mediterranean cooking dominates the menu, and standouts include veal osso buco, ravioli Florentine and grilled Mediterranean-style salmon. For dessert, opt for the heavenly cappuccino ice cream. The wine list is well-selected and reasonably priced with a good number of choices available by the glass. The wonderfully personable staff is helpful and knowledgeable.
Classic Italian cuisine is Campisi's forte. A local favorite, the restaurant offers delicious pasta and pizza combinations. It even allows patrons to bring their own beer and wine. Menu choices include crab claws, combo platters of traditional Italian fare, and excellent thin-crust pizzas. Lively ambience ensures that everyone has a good time.
The happy marriage of Arcodoro and Pomodoro doubly highlights Sardinia's rustic cuisine and character. As far as the neighborhood is concerned, the union is a blessed one. Two distinct experiences await: Arcodoro is the casual partner, praised for wood-fired pizzas and al fresco seating while Pomodoro offers more formal environs. Although homestyle pastas are always a good bet, don't overlook dishes like broiled lobster with vegetable ravioli, brandy sauce, and Sardinian caviar.
Charming and intimate, this Italian restaurant has the look and feel of a neighborhood eatery, thanks to dim lighting, red tablecloths, and exposed brick walls adorned with various interpretations of the "Mona Lisa." Pleasant servers make patrons feel like long-time regulars and don't mind suggesting time-tested favorites like eggplant parmigiana and linguine with clams. Diners willing to share should consider ordering a wood-fired Neapolitan pizza.
The posh shops of Highland Village surround this upscale yet family-friendly restaurant. Be forewarned — portions are huge, so order accordingly. Favorites like lasagna, baked ziti, and classic spaghetti and meatballs suit kids and picky eaters; diners looking for something new can sample penne with prosciutto in smoked gouda sauce or open-faced ravioli heaped with asparagus, mushrooms, and artichokes. Request a seat on the patio, where creeping ivy and a gurgling fountain provide a romantic backdrop.
You may not expect to find such superb Italian food secreted away, but descend beneath the Chase Building to this nearly-hidden spot, and you'll be richly rewarded by authentic Sicilian cuisine. Chef Daniele Puleo, a native of Palermo, brings the recipes and flavors of his childhood to the tables of this successful Dallas restaurant. Try simple but delicious pennette alla trapanese (penne pasta with tomato sauce, basil, olive oil, garlic, and parsley), or opt for something more adventurous, like pan-seared tuna in a kiwi reduction. Each month, a five-course prix fixe menu explores a different region of Italy, complete with wine pairings.
Lively and energetic, this Italian eatery is often packed with customers eager for thin, crisp-crust pizzas and mouthwatering risottos. Ten classic and specialty pizzas tempt diners, ranging from a traditional Margherita (tomatoes, mozzarella, and basil) to the Mezzanotte (eggs, roasted potatoes, pancetta, and mozzarella). Taverna uses carnaroli rice rather than arborio in its famed risottos, preferring the firmness of the grain. Don't miss risotto con salsiccia, enlivened with boar sausage, mushrooms, and cranberries.
Traditional Italian home cooking is the order of the day in this West End Italian restaurant in the heart of theatre-land. The Italian Kitchen has a rustic feel reminiscent of those little trattorias you find in Tuscan villages. Dark wooden beams and gingham table clothes keep the interior just the right side of being twee and the atmosphere is welcoming and relaxed. Loyal regulars come back again and again for never-changing favourites, but seasonal additions keep it interesting. Start off with a traditional antipasti and move to freshly prepared pasta or pizza. Save room for desserts -- the panna di campagna fantasia (apple bread pudding served with hot caramel sauce) should definiately be on your don't miss list.
Clever Claphamites know where to get their carb fix – at The Italian Job in Lavender Hill. This Battersea based pasta house is within walking distance of both Clapham Common and Clapham South tube stations, and is popular with a trendy young professional crowd who adore the restaurant's Neapolitan-style pizzas and homemade pasta. Surrounded by cocktail bars, boutiques and cafes, The Italian Job is a convenient spot to meet up with friends and colleagues for a fun night out. With its buzzy, intimate dining room and half-gourmet-delicatessen/half-cafeteria décor, The Italian Job has become a Battersea institution, and locals love the fresh potato gnocchi with a tomato and provolone sauce; the ravioli drenched in butter and sage; and the homemade lasagne.
The Fulham Road branch of The Italian Job has local foodies in a twist, and this relaxed cafe-come-bar has a light and airy dining room which is always filled with a contented crowd. The décor is a mix of modern cafe furniture and trendy bric-a-brac, giving the restaurant a warm and welcoming vibe, and the bar downstairs serves a list of excellent wine and cocktails perfect for pre or post dinner tipples. Perfect for mid-week meals with friends or colleagues or family nights out, this casual neighbourhood Italian boasts a simple yet delicious menu, and highlights include the potato gnocchi with a fresh tomato and provolone sauce, and the homemade tiramisu.
Once the staple dining experience of Soho, the old-school Italian trattoria is now a lesser-spotted breed - but it can still be spotted from time to time. Italian Graffiti is a classic of the genre:a dark interior, surprisingly spacious and endearingly unpretentious (we can also recommend the Trattoria Da Aldo round the corner on Greek Street). A visit here is like a trip back to the 1970s, with a menu that offers ripe pickings for nostalgics and a wood-heavy decor that's simply waiting for a preservation order. You half expect waiters to have the Godfather theme as their ringtone. Cream of asparagus soup made good use of seasonal ingredients, but tricolore salad was unspectacular. A main course of filling, creamy rigatoni with pancetta and peas was comforting, yet clearly designed to appeal to the steady flow of fiftysomething punters. At lunchtime, businessmen on reduced expenses flock here searching for a taste of their youth. Pizzas are more satisfying, but it's the experience you're paying for here - and prices are reasonable. Our only disappointment was that pudding didn't arrive on a dessert trolley.
For authentic and affordable Italian food in the capital you can't go wrong with Ponti's Italian Kitchen - a family-run restaurant since 1963. Located on John Princes Street near Oxford Circus , this classic Italian has a cosy feel with its warm interior and retro menus, and it is an ideal spot for post-shopping/ pre-theatre/ after-work meals and dates. The food at Ponti's Italian Kitchen is made from the finest Italian-imported ingredients and each family recipe has been given a modern, gourmet twist. Star dishes include the Emilia Romagna – freshly sliced Parma ham with rocket, mozzarella and tomatoes; the Penne Modena with Italian sausage, chilli, garlic, courgettes and yoghurt; and the Coffee Poached Pears with marscapone cream.
For authentic and affordable Italian food in the capital you can't go wrong with Ponti's Italian Kitchen - a family-run restaurant since 1963. Located on Duke Street near Bond Street station, this classic Italian has a cosy feel with its warm interior and retro menus, and it is an ideal spot for post-shopping, pre-theatre, after-work meals and dates. The food at Ponti's Italian Kitchen is made from the finest Italian-imported ingredients and each family recipe has been given a modern, gourmet twist. Star dishes include the Emilia Romagna – freshly sliced Parma ham with rocket , mozzarella and tomatoes; the Penne Modena with Italian sausage, chilli, garlic, courgettes and yoghurt; and the Coffee Poached Pears with marscapone cream.
In the heart of the City, in a quiet side street in the Rothschild banking district, Swithin's Italian restaurant is a very special place to dine and entertain. Beneath London's pavements lie the old vaults of Sandeman's, where port was bottled for hundreds of years. These arching cellars are the setting for Swithin's fine Italian dining room. The bricked vaults may have an air of rusticity, but the leather banquettes, gleaming silver and crystal, and white linens create an elegant space for enjoying first class cuisine. The menu includes classic dishes, many with an inventive modern twist. Try starter of fillet of beef carpaccio on mixed leaves with lemon vinaigrette, second course of home made spinach and ricotta ravioli -- all the pastas are home made, with chopped tomato, butter and sage, main course of calves liver and bacon with sauteed baby spinach and mash, or one of the Italian veal, or a fresh fish dish. There are superb vegetarian choices, too. The mostly-French wine list has a few well-chosen Italians and a tempting line in champagnes. Very professional service.
An Italian restaurant out of the ordinary, Melanie’s specialises in Neapolitan food, setting it apart from the numerous other dining rooms in London’s central Soho area. Located on the notorious Old Compton Street, close to Piccadilly Circus, Leicester Square and the numerous theatres and cinemas the West End has to offer, Melanie’s is easy to spot thanks to its large awning proudly displaying the red, green and white of the Italian flag. Inside, you’ll find a dining room clad in much light wood and full of light, traditional, simple and comfortable in its décor. In the kitchen, the focus is very much on the use of good ingredients, the chefs sourcing local and seasonal produce for their classic Neapolitan dishes. You’ll recognise many of Melanie’s offerings, from favourite pizzas to well known pasta dishes, but you’ll also be tempted to try the specialties of the house which include the typical ingredients of Naples and the surrounding countryside and have roots in the Greco-Roman period.
Everyone loves Jamie O, or so you'd believe if you stumbled off the deserted streets of Kingston and into the action-packed environs of Jamie's Italian at 10pm on a rainy Tuesday. The no-booking policy (for fewer than eight people) means there's always a queue (apart from at opening time and 4-5pm according to the barman), as high-spirited families, couples and groups of mates clamber to try the Jamie take on rustic, relaxed Italian cuisine. We were warned of a 40-minute wait; it was 20, and two good cocktails at the slick-but-sticky bar made it whizz by. There are signs of the man himself everywhere - his mug adorning T-shirts, cookbooks, and, er, mugs, on sale in the entrance, along with the promise of 'proper posh' chips on the menu. Antipasti plates made tasty starters to share - melt-in-the-mouth crispy squid and fat polenta wedges were given zing with a sprinkle of fried herbs. Pasta is a speciality, and a big bowl of sausage pappardelle was comforting if not memorable. Food, fittings and atmosphere are all bang on brand: good value, friendly and fuss-free, with an irrepressible energy, but there's no denying it all feels formulaic. With more branches soon to open, this slick take on a traditional trattoria seems destined to become the next high-street honey.
It's hard to imagine either jockey Frankie Dettori or celeb-chef Marco Pierre White eating here, but this chain of New Jersey-style Italian-American restaurants is associated with both men. There are other branches in Selfridges basement, Chelsea FC's Stamford Bridge stadium, and in Dubai. Despite all the glitz, the results are surprisingly pedestrian. This Knightsbridge flagship is a cavernous underground room brightened by wall-to-wall mirrors, red-and-white checked tablecloths, and no fewer than ten oversized disco balls, set to a soundtrack of classic lounge crooners. Succulent pork belly came with a 'glaze' that was more sweet soup than thinly applied basting, and was peculiarly offset with bitter coriander seeds. The accompanying 'Frankie's salad' was little more than a bowl of watercress. Given the complete lack of vegetarian mains (though a larger starter was offered), we opted for a passable but unambitious spaghettini sorrentina (one of around ten pasta dishes), in which neither the tomatoes nor the mozzarella impressed. A range of burgers, canapés and cocktails is available too - but we're in no hurry to try them after this lacklustre.

Disappointing to say the least. Ordered a red wine which cost about £25 and suspect they paid about £6 for it. The house red much better but still overpriced. Didn't like the way one of the waiters gave a waitress a dressing down simply because she put a dessert in front of the wrong person. This is bullying. Heavy white plates looked cheap and were not warmed. No steak knives. They didn't even have the grace to put a salad garnish on my main course of aubergine parmesan. A side of green beans was £3.75. They were well done and buttery. Aubergine tasted good too but not substantial enough for the price they charged - and it was a vegetable, for heaven's sake, not a steak or seafood platter. We got our 50% off but, cynically, prices have been jacked up accordingly to make you think it's a bargain.
They wouldn't put the wine bottles on the table & filled before glases were empty trying to make us drink more. (There were 10 of us.) It didn't work. Service fussy and too many waiters (a very rare complaint i know!!)
They offer swordfish which is an endangered species.
Luckily, unlike poor reviewer below, there was no loud music - none at all. Place was packed and that was bad enough volume-wise. All in all just another London rip-off. RIP Bacco soon i hope!! March 2011
Comment on this reader review
i dined out at your restaurant and i though the food was good and the service but i was a little bored waiting for my meal as there wasn't any entertainment. other than that your restaurant is fantastic!
A truly dreadful experience!
Our party of four went to Bacco last Saturday (13/03) looking forward to good food and a relaxed and enjoyable night out..
What a disappointment! Over-pushy staff whose sole aim was to rack up the drinks bill by constantly overfilling our glasses, overpriced and poor food and the impression that they wanted us out the door served to make it a night to forget.
It's a good job I'm a Madonna fan as listening to 'Like a Virgin' at deafening volume while eating insipid minestrone soup might have sent me over the edge.
By the time we were shoving the flabby and lukeward veal escalope around our plates 'Like a Prayer' was blasting out.
The truly awful thing is that the staff, including the Maitre D knew they were ripping us off. Try this place at your own risk and make sure you take your earplugs.
Went here with some friends last night, booking through London Eating to get the 50% discount. The place was quite busy, well decorated, had a very nice atmosphere and was professionally operated, also most of the staff were Italian which is a good sign.
We were a little surprised when the starters arrived as they were quite small but actually they were really good and tactfully portioned. The smoked chicken salad was delicious.
We all had pasta mains which were in fact quite generous portions. All dishes went down well, although sauces might be rather rich for some tastes (particularly gnocchi with pesto). Pappardelle with hare ragu was very tasty, but the pasta was a little overcooked and stuck together. Veal meatballs were also praised.
While it was a great evening, I would recommend taking advantage of the 50% discount. The full prices displayed were a little steep, but with the offer it was good value and a nice evening. 
While Mayfair seems to be birthing Italian restaurants with alarming frequency, Alloro’s accomplished food, exclusive surrounds & honest pricing still stand out. Regionality & quality produce get full coverage on a menu that’s modern yet recognisable, with a definite ‘something for everyone’ appeal. Truffles are a favourite, with shavings grated over deftly fashioned tagliarini, creamy risotto & butter-rich scrambled egg on toast. Elsewhere, the kitchen innovates (crisp soft-shell crab perched on crab & avocado salad, say) & turns out classics such as ‘melt in the mouth’ handmade gnocchi al pesto, tuna steak with rocket & tiramisu with equal aplomb. The ‘deeply interesting’ wine list is a virtual compendium of regional Italy, cutting a swathe between expense-account excess & affordable quality. Discreet service is generally invisible amid Alloro’s mahogany leather seating, clothed tables & unobtrusive copper & marble artworks. 
Secreted away in what looks like a mews flat above a pub, Assaggi is a bright, light & good-natured restaurant where moneyed locals come to enjoy fresh, uncomplicated Italian food of the best sort. The walls are decorated with canvas panels in an assortment of colours, but otherwise the pared-down setting offers little in the way of interior design; the emphasis here is on top ingredients & simple, unaffected cooking – a fact that can occasionally leave diners feeling underwhelmed. Starters could include pecorino with rocket, grilled vegetables marinated in olive oil, or highly enjoyable burrata wrapped in a slice of grilled aubergine. Mains are equally straightforward, with grilled sea bass, ever-popular calf’s liver & pappardelle with crab (‘hard to fault’) heading the list of seasonal favourites. A selection of daily desserts rounds off proceedings. Attentive, all-Italian staff guarantee gracious service. 
‘The kind of place that makes you feel good the moment you step inside’, Bocca di Lupo certainly has the X factor. From the gritty backstreet location, to the kitchen’s reputation for producing ‘interesting, challenging & inventive’ regional Italian cooking – the experience is anything but dull. Balloons of golden batter envelop a mozzarella & anchovy-stuffed courgette flower; jewel-like pomegranate seeds decorate shavings of earthy celeriac & radish; & a delectable pork & foie gras sausage rests atop a heap of porcini-infused farro. The 17-strong pudding list is a treat in itself, but for more sweet stuff, visit the newly launched gelateria & deli, Gelupo, across the street (see review). Gripes centre on the main room’s close-set tables (perching at the bar is a fun alternative) & overstretched staff, but most reports agree this glamorous restaurant ‘lives up to the hype’. 
Go for the people watching as well as the pasta’ say fans of this supremely assured, unrepentantly glamorous outpost of the Soho House Group. Here is a venue that caters for every mood & ‘never fails to deliver’: Anglo-Italian breakfasts of black truffle scrambled eggs; a light lunch of smoked pigeon, wild mushroom, endive & baby spinach salad; small plates of chicken liver crostini at the handsome marble bar (see separate review), or full-blown dinners with bags of possibilities. Dishes might range from the straight-up satisfaction of calamari fritti & veal milanese to the more sophisticated charms of richly flavoured goats’ cheese ravioli with aubergine, pine nuts & pesto or perfectly timed prawns & scallops with spring vegetables. Puds include excellent homemade ice cream & this is a great place to bring the kids, especially for weekend brunch. ‘Staff treat everyone like their most respected customer’ – so ask for a table in one of the wonderfully comfy corner banquettes. 
Praise is abundant for this well-established Italian, set on an insalubrious corner of Putney High Street. It’s certainly true the ‘sophisticated delights hidden within’ are difficult to divine from outside. Giuseppe Turi’s team has been producing clever rustic Italian food for decades – expect classic rabbit stews, perfectly timed pasta with crab & samphire, rich long-cooked ragù of lamb, or classic guinea fowl with sage & butter. But though the cooking’s good, the wine list is ‘king’. Each dish on the menu is matched with a wine by the glass from his considerable collection of Italian bottles. Service is ‘confident & helpful’ as befits such a reliable restaurant, but the atmosphere is created by the waves of happy, satisfied locals who come here rain or shine, be it for a celebration or simply for supper. 
If any chef can fill a chain restaurant with his personality it’s Jamie Oliver, & sure enough, the bustling Canary Wharf outpost of his eponymous Italian is evidently a pukka hit with a predominantly youthful fan base. Some nevertheless find the experience ‘disappointing’, citing ‘tiny’ portions & long waits for tables, although you can book. The menu is garnished with the usual self-congratulatory Oliver adjectives; at its best, the food lives up to them. A vegetable antipasti plank was covered in good things; less successful was the tepid & chewy ‘crispy’ squid; things perked up with a delicious flash-grilled feather steak. The wine list majors on sub-£25 Italians & delivers impressively refined drinking for the money. Friendly, upbeat service is a bonus.
The high-backed chairs may be new, but understated Latium is sticking to its winning ways when it comes to robust & highly personal Italian food. Chef/patron Maurizo Morelli has a ‘passion for ravioli’: his signature ‘four-fish’ creation with sea-bass bottarga (dried roe) is full of ‘sumptuous colours, intense flavours & distinctive aromas’, & the choice of delicate possibilities also runs to, say, crab tortelli with rocket sauce. Other standouts from the well-rounded menu might include a salad of veal tongue with tuna, & a dish of roast guinea fowl with borlotti beans, peppers & garlic leaves. Desserts are equally inviting: round off with a savarin in limoncello syrup or reprise the pasta theme with sweet chocolate ravioli filled with ricotta, candied fruit & pistachios. The Italian wine list includes some unusual regional names by the glass. Staff are praised for their friendliness & consideration, while wheelchair users are grateful for Latium’s wide, open spaces.
‘A true pleasure, & the best Italian food outside Italy’, declares one devotee of Giorgio Locatelli’s flagship restaurant, adding ‘it is seldom a celebrity chef so directly delivers what he promises’. Praise indeed for a cool, sexy A-lister that ‘smells of money’. From the huge basket of home-baked breads onwards, everything is judged & managed with real authority – although Locatelli’s wizardry with pasta is guaranteed to bring the house down: pumpkin ravioli, herby faggotini parcels with walnut sauce, tagliatelle with chilli-spiked kid ragù & pillow-soft gnocchi with earthy morels all get rave reviews. Secondi are also exquisitely fashioned, from creamy-sweet John Dory on asparagus to calf’s liver with balsamic vinegar, Swiss chard, pine kernels & sultanas. Not sampling a Michelin-starred tiramisu when given the chance seems almost criminal, but a delirious dessert of white chocolate soup, passion-fruit jelly & pistachio ice cream gathers more plaudits. Service can be ‘exemplary’ or ‘a little inattentive’, depending on the day, but this is still ‘a top pick in London’.
Wine List: This brilliant list is all-Italian, bar the odd Champagne. As the sommelier’s introduction informs you, there is no more varied wine-producing country, and this is the place to come and sample that diversity. There is a staggering array of fine bottles from the classics, but also a light is shone on regions and grapes rarely seen in this country. This all comes with remarkably restrained pricing – try to save energy for the mind-boggling range of spirits. Best Buy White 2008 Specogna, Tocai Fruilano, Colli Orientali, Italy, £30. Best Buy Red 2006 Selvapiana, ‘Bucerchiale’, Chianti Rufina Riserva, Tuscany, Italy, £42. 
A textbook trattoria right down to its rustic earthy tones, stripped wood furniture & flickering candles, Osteria Basilico still stakes its claim as a serious Notting Hill crowd pleaser – thanks largely to its food. The antipasti buffet makes for a great opening gambit, particularly if you can’t decide between char-grilled smoked mozzarella on slices of Parma ham or air-cured beef from Valtellina with artichokes & marinated mushrooms. Generous pasta dishes include firm favourites such as spaghetti vongole, spinach & ricotta tortelloni, while secondi aim for generosity in the shape of, say, veal escalopes in black truffle sauce or char-grilled sea bass with aromatic olive oil; there’s also a clutch of pizzas to choose from. This is a local Italian that goes the extra mile – a fact reflected in the bill. 
‘Hey, it’s a bit like being in New York’, you might exclaim as you step into this metallic, warehouse-style diner. Even if you’ve never been west of Aberystwyth, the industrial-chic space & the chipper service are unmistakably Meatpacking District, & the atmosphere by night is more bangin’ than bistro. You might start by sharing a selection of coppa, prosciutto & burrata, some meatballs, baked chilli crab or broad beans with mint & pecorino. Pizza toppings such as potato, pancetta & stinky puzzone cheese, or veal meatballs with cream & sage aren’t your usual tomatoey numbers, although you might also be tempted by skate with Roman chicory, anchovies & celery. Not everyone falls for the trendy trappings, but most customers enjoy it enough to come back for more. Wine & prosecco are served by the tumbler or carafe. 
Polpo has quickly achieved ‘cult-like status’, playing to packed houses of ‘young, fashionable folk’. There’s plenty to praise about this Venice-inspired wine bar, including the ‘distressed look’ (old tiles, exposed brick), clued-up staff & electric atmosphere. Food consists of a short menu of grazing plates inspired by peasant Italy. Begin with ‘cicheti’ (snacks) of arancini, crostini or baby octopus, say, before mackerel tartare with wafer-thin flatbread & creamy horseradish, or mint & pea risotto. To finish, the flourless orange & almond cake is deservedly popular. Minor gripes about the bar being too crammed have been addressed by the opening of the Polpo Campari bar beneath the main dining room, where more Venetian-style tapas are displayed in glass cabinets & cocktails & northern Italian wines are served. If only, say readers, the wine came in stemmed glasses, not ‘rustic tumblers’. But that’s a small niggle: after all, ‘how can anywhere that has a dish on its menu at £1.10 be bad?’ No reservations, so expect to queue. 
Portobello’s big claim to fame is the newly fashionable ‘pizzametro’ (pizza by the metre), served on long wooden racks with strips of various toppings – perhaps artichokes, black olives, roast ham & salami. Popularised by the Bay of Naples some 40 years ago, this nifty culinary idea was designed as the ultimate communal dish for sharing, & the philosophy still holds good in W11 – although the sheer volume of customers, combined with a tiny ground-floor kitchen, close-packed tables & overstretched waiters can cause problems. Pizza may be the main event, but the chefs can also rustle up caponata & carpaccio as well as gnocchi alla sorrentina & spicy homemade Italian sausages stuffed with smoked provola cheese. Friendly prices extend to the creditable Italian wine list, & there’s a popular all-weather terrace out front. 
Both chef/proprietor Marco Torri & restaurant manager Giovanni Baldino have worked at the immaculate Locanda Locatelli (see review), & it shows in this ‘semplice’ (but definitely not prosaic) Michelin-starred Italian. Golden tones dominate the romantically suggestive dining room, & though staff may take some ‘warming up’, service is generally attentive & accommodating. Impeccably sourced, top-notch ingredients from Italy (& nearer home) form the building blocks for dishes that are not always what might be expected: the surprises are always good, if portions are sometimes on the small side. Full marks to a textbook version of vitello tonnato, a signature risotto milanese made silky with bone marrow, & a ‘divine’ main course of roast milk-fed Piedmontese veal with spelt & a cep sauce. The cheeseboard & dessert menu are both worth hanging around for, & the Italian wine list showcases the best from producers big & small. 
Affirmed as the venue that created the blueprint for west London’s dining renaissance, the intrepid River Café continues to wow – despite the countless imitators it has inspired. Co-founder Rose Gray’s death in 2010 was a sad loss for the restaurant world, but the restaurant still bears the stamp of her cooking. The place remains a mightily impressive spectacle – even if the brash, blue interior is reminiscent of an ‘aircraft hangar’. A few doubters cite ‘astronomical prices’ & ‘disappointing food’, but one reader speaks for many: ‘nothing fancy here… because all the pleasure is intended to be in the eating’. The River Café has always been about ingredients, seasonality & bold rustic flavours, & rave reviews continue to roll in: a huge plate of crab meat atop sea kale with finely grated bottarga, delicately gamey pappardelle with rabbit, pigeon & pheasant, & a ‘superb specimen’ of Dover sole laced with anchovy & served with lentils & greens have all proved gloriously satisfying. Fresh-as-a-daisy salads & smoky specialities from the wood-burning oven also score highly, & to finish, it has to be the famed chocolate nemesis.
Cut from classic Italian cloth, Scalini ‘never fails to entertain’ & hits all the right notes when it comes to comforting food & personalised service. The warm, bubbly dining room is ‘loud, fun & filled with laughter’, as all sorts sit at cramped, mismatched tables while ‘brilliant’ waiters go about their work with gusto. The kitchen comes up trumps with a menu full of must-try dishes: the grilled langoustines with garlic butter are ‘to die for’, but the choice also extends to big portions of risotto di mare, steak tagliata, calf’s liver with polenta & – of course – some terrific homemade pasta (perhaps ‘heavenly’ lobster linguine or tortellini with Gorgonzola & asparagus). The wine list is an Italian thoroughbred, & a new VIP room does the business for private gatherings. In all, this place simply oozes confidence – ‘you can’t go wrong’, chimes a fan.
Interior improvements mean that River Café alumnus Theo Randall is no longer stuck with one of the most corporate dining rooms in town, though his self-named restaurant will never scream Tuscany. Even so, his food has its own personal stamp, & his cooking is defined by scrupulous sourcing from Italy & our own home turf. Pasta is a strong suit – perhaps fresh, sweet taglierini al pescatore. The seasons are always writ large, & dishes are a savvy mix of earthy rustic hues & sophisticated detailing. Wood-roasting is a favourite trick that yields some glorious results: marinated Anjou pigeon with pancetta & trevisse tardivo, for example. A salad of Devon crab with dandelion, celery & bottarga wowed one reader, & char-grilled Limousin veal chop is a speciality – simply paired with, say, chanterelles. Pastrywork is a triumph, particularly in tarts rich with Amalfi lemons or chocolate. The wheels occasionally come off when it comes to service, although any problems are swiftly put right. 
Few upscale Italians deliver as consistently as this Knightsbridge aristocrato, which continues to wows the crowds with its perfect manners & immaculately crafted food. A supremely balanced starter of burrata with grilled aubergines, tomatoes & Bonamini DOP olive oil shows meticulous attention to detail, while a big-hearted main of rib-eye tagliata topped with rocket & aged balsamic gets straight to the nitty-gritty. Zafferano is also one of London’s top dogs when it comes to pasta – whether it’s classy linguine with lobster & fresh tomato or silky pappardelle tossed with a flavourful lamb ragù. Desserts are also impressive (try the exquisite buffalo ricotta cannoli) & the complimentary mini-cone of ice cream is a neat touch. The bare brick & taupe dining room is a picture of understated conviviality, although cheek-by-jowl seating can make private conversation tricky; if so, repair to the peaceful bar.
A Monday lunchtime is never perhaps the best time to judge, especially when we arrived soon after opening, but the atmosphere was flat, very few customers, though it did pick up later in the meal. The room seems a little dated (see the pictures on their website and its exactly like that), comfortable but certainly not exceptional.Food is well presented, but a bit bland and hard to tell why it grabbed a star – perhaps there were better choices on the menu than I made. We both skipped starters as work beckoned, but salt cod lacked flavour and apple tart was just ok, nothing exceptional.Service is polite and attentive; amazing how taking an attractive blonde companion always grabs a waiters attention!Value for money is perfectly reasonable in this part of town, but you don't feel you've had a bargain.Z was pretty busy before and after we left on Sunday evening which speaks volumes. Not enamoured by the menu at first glance and disappointed that lobster wasn’t available, I didn’t expect great things. Oh, did my mood lift as we went for 3 savoury courses plus a shared pud which had been prepped & cooked to perfection throughout. Not a revolutionary experience but just scrummy yummy. Impressed by Maitre d’hôtel’s recommendation for my main plus a Sicilian wine – the name I’m still trying to recall. Naturally an Italian leaning was expected but with astounding choice and some reasonably priced bottles exactly as SqM states et al. Venue was chosen on the basis of easy walk from hotel and my partner fancying Italian fare that evening – glad he did as we’d return without hesitation. This place is fantastic. great food on a menu that changes regularly. Brilliant value and great service. Islington has a new number 1 restaurant. Well done. This is quite simply the best restaurant in Islington. After the sad passing of the Gill Wing Cafe and an absurd pc disaster which followed it, the premises have languished for too long and then suddenly, from nowhere, perfect short delicious menu, excellent wines, charming service and already crowded. Almost too good to be true – enjoy it quick before it fades. 
To understand please imagine being in the hands of the greatest butler in the world, he understands everything, knows how everything works and is in total control without appearing to be so, a sort of uber Jeeves who glides around the room always shadowed by a waiter to take care of any immediate need or perceived defficiency. I had not realised that there were such people left in Britain. What a safe pair of hands. Clearly the owners of this superb ‘neighbourhood’ are going to make a fortune.The brilliant head waiter is clearly deeply involved and wonderfully calm, just watching him operate it is clear that his cmmittment to well being of the customers and the food is total, this without his being intrusive in any way whatsoever. He gives the impression of being outwardly laid back but to do the job that he does it cannot be so.We ate here recently for my boyfriends birthday and I cannot fault anything, the entire experience from the moment we walked in the door was just perfect. The food was incredible, the wine was excellent, and the staff were out of this world (incredibly attentive, polite and discreet, and most importantly they knew exactly what they were talking about when we asked any questions about the food and wine).Around a month after new local restaurant Tinello opened we decided to check it out. Having passed by on many occasions and always seen the restaurant fully booked (and also on few occasions failed to get a booking for the evening) we expected good things from a site that has seen it change hands a few times from L’Incontro to Mauro and back.
Without a booking and at around 9pm we chanced our luck and walked in. Staff were friendly and within a few moments we were shown downstairs to a large round table with a view (if you are stood!) of the kitchens. We didn’t even know the venue had a downstairs, what a nice surprise. It’s less noisy and atmospheric than upstairs but nicer for a quiet evening meal.
We both opted to share some of their smaller plates to start, ordering a mixture of fried Zucchini, buratta, the special of polenta and wild mushrooms and some Italian ham. All the dishes were tasty and at very good value considering the size of some of them. For my main I had the aubergine and warm smoked cheese salad which was one of the best in London I have had. The smoked cheese flavoured the whole dish perfectly and I couldn’t have been more pleased with my choice. My companion had the lamb dish which too looked good and I am assured tasted the same.My husband and I ate here only 3 days after it opened. You know how you just want a restaurant to do well because the staff are so helpful and dedicated you can tell they want it to do well too? Well this is the place. We are great fans of the food of Locanda Locatelli (not the room mind you which I hate, just the food ) so when we heard that this place was being sponsored by the Locatelli's and involved old staff we booked immediately. We were not diappointed. Whilst the menu is limited it offers some lovely options. The small eats , a sort of Italian tapas was excellent-, and in particular, the string fried zuccinni . The main course of seabass in a celeriac mash looked rather plain but tasted sublime. For dessert I had Tiramisu and my husband had cheese. Again perfect. . Coffee folowed with lovely little Tuscan beignets. Lovely and all for about 120 quid with wine and 2 glassses of champagne. Will definately come back if I can get in. 
I've read a few hit and miss reviews,,, I have to say I have been here a few times… and the one MISS we did experience was very swiftly resolved. … As with all restaurants that have won awards and have a well known chef, one does have high expectations and in turn it can get very mixed reviews. I have always found the staff courteous… We love the bar area…the atmosphere …the food .and we have always had a good evening there ( even though it is healthily priced ) . As i say…we had one occasion whereby my partner had left the fish dish she had ordered . When asked why, she informed the waiter that she thought that it was slightly over cooked ,,, They couldn't have apologised more , She was offered another fish but we were all ready for our next course . Theo , who is always interactive with his customers , came out and apologised. We said that having ate here before we weren't going to be put off. The meal was struck off the bill… as was the half bottle of desert wine as a token. Which in anyone's mind was a nice gesture.I would say that I think the menu could be changed more often..but the food I personally find pleasing. I visited Theo Randall a while ago… We arrived in a group of 8 for a late lunch after a meeting, starving and looking forward to dinner we first had to sit by the bar waiting for our table, despite arriving 15 minutes after the booking time. It took another 20 minutes to be seated and once at the table, getting menus took another 15 minutes. Being that my group were largely clients, I discreetly called the waitress over and explained that service has been a tad lacking and that I would appreciate it if they would do their utmost to look after us and be efficient. We waited again to place our orders but once the starters came out, they were lovely. Main courses looked lovely, although my dish arrived as something completely different to what I had ordered and so although the Chef (Theo Randall himself) sent his apologies from the kitchen, I had to rush through my main as by the time it had arrived, most of my guests had already finished their main. I wasn't able to stay for dessert but my clients and colleagues did and they seemed to enjoy the meal overall. I would say that although the food clearly isn't bad, service is sloppy and often neglectful. Nobody likes having to pull someone up on service at the beginning of a meal, but when you are with clients, sometimes that is what you have to do to prevent a molehill from turning into a mountain. Last minute booking on a Saturday night Warm welcome at reception then led to a horrible part of the restaurant but to be fair at least we got in. Food was simple honest and well executed Wine list as you would expect mainly Italian but lacked flair or imagination. Wine service excellent food service not so good I was given wrong starters and mains.Overall a good night and I would recommend.We decided to book our meal for the early lunch sitting and go for the set menu, as knowing would be in London , and walking all day, the earlier the better! other reviews saying that the restaurant was busy and understaffed could not apply, for as soon as we entered the two other tables that were finishing eating had soon settled their bills and drifted out, looking very content. The service was impeccable. the main waitress for our table was attentive, friendly and, despite describing fried courgette as healthy French fries, was perfectly professional. tap water was poured for and, the wine that at first seemed expensive but after tasting, very fairly priced, was poured perfectly and politely by a very knowledgeable and passionate young waiter. the food was very good, we were allowed four courses ( £27 for three and one extra for £5) which did take us quite a while and although the booking said we could only have 2 hours, they happily accepted us for longer. starters of cured beef with rocket was a perfect, light start, and a point that the food being wholly italian and attempting to accentuate the rustic friendliness and relaxed aspect of Italy's food, it felt a bit juxtaposed against the interior ( admittedly, the STUNNING interior) of a five star london hotel. This said I was there with my partner to enjoy ourselves and we certainly did, our pasta courses, a seafood ravioli and beef fillet and chianti ravioli, were stunning. the beef rich and somehow creamy, with the seafood, (apparently) delicious, and the inclusion of actual fresh seafood, which sadly seems fairly rare in many other places I have eaten, was wonderful. Mains wise, the salmon fillet I had, accompanied by vegetables seasoned and cooked well was a true treat. a huge portion, unexpected when offered the choice of three courses ( possibly the up-selling of the waitress) however the salmon was light, the skin crispy but delicate and the vegetables had a flavour but just the right amount not to distract from the fish, but to compliment its subtle flavours perfectly. The huge portion of guinea fowl that my partner ate was apparently dry and the well hidden marscapone did not do enough to satisfy the tongues need for moisture, however cooked well and soft enough in parts to enjoy the flavour immensely, even if a sauce could have softened the touch slightly. A beautiful pear and almond tart, and an overly priced cappuccino later resolved in a meal that lived up to and satisfied the expectations that I had prior to the meal. I will, and already have recommended it to people, and maybe I am a sucker for a set menu, but presented with the quality and the portions that we had, I think eating earlier and better is the way forward. Having booked short notice the day before I was a little wary on how good Theo Randal’s could be, so went with managed expectations and good job I did!
The food on the whole was more hearty Italian than top end dining. For antipasti I had smoked eel salad, which was a nice meat flavour with subtle hints of smoke, very good. Then for Primi, I had slow cook Veal tagliatelle with summer truffle; the truffle a tasteless waste of time and the pasta was a little too dry and could of benefited with some sauce. Then for main I had the Monk fish and prosciutto, which was good especially the ham.
Where the wheels came off however was the service, it was a good half an hour before we were asked for our orders, and it didn’t occur to them to offer aperitifs, despite having some Archers and Prosecco thing on the top of their menu. Anyway, we ordered our food and aperitifs. A good half hour went by, and we asked again for aperitifs. About forty minutes after ordering the antipasti arrived, and about half way though that the aperitifs arrived. Once the plates were cleared we waited about another forty minuets for the Primi course to arrive, similarly about another forty minutes from those plates being cleared we finally got our mains.
By this point they picked up on our disgruntled body language and various people started to appear to apologise for the poor service. One told us that they were very busy that night, as they had a private function on too; but I am sorry get more staff, we are all paying for an evening out and why should my evening suffer?
They did however offer free pudding to make up for the lax service and long waits, but as we were keen to get off as it was quite late we politely declined. Only to be presented on our exit with a take out box with a couple of deserts in there! (Chocolate mouse cake, very moist and very yum, and a sharp lemon tart which was also yum and in fact these were the best food of the whole evening).So whilst the food on the whole was good, it wasn’t really up to the standard I’d of thought a restaurant of this class could or would produce, but the wholly inexcusable service means if I want posh Italian food, I’ll go back to L’Anima! 
The staff were rude and abrupt. We were rushed. And the fish course was cold and overcooked.
The problems started soon after we were shown to our table. We were not given sufficient time to consider the menu. The waiter came to take our order far too soon. And he returned several times before we were ready. The menu was complex and we needed a few minutes to consider it without being constantly pestered.
A waitress poured white wine into my friend’s cocktail. The waitress laughed it off. Mistakes happen. But I was slightly taken aback that the waitress did not offer my friend a replacement cocktail.
The secondi course was brought to the table within a minute of the previous course being cleared (literally). The monkfish we ordered was overcooked and cold.For desert we ordered chocolate sorbet. We were told that it had turned out wrong so had been removed from the menu. Again, mistakes happen but it was just another thing among many. We ordered something else.
Before we finished eating, the waiter came over to our table and plonked down the bill unprompted. We had the distinct impression that we were unwelcome and that he wanted us to leave immediately.This restaurant is not cheap and I would expect decent food and service for that price. We received neither.
I wrote to the restaurant about my experience. They did not bother to reply. This is despite the fact that I wrote a second time asking for a reply.
I would not return and would recommend others not to go to the River Cafe. It used to be good but those times have passed. 
I don't believe River Cafe deserves the accolades once bestowed upon it, I remember eating there for the first time more than 10 years ago and being blown away by how a simple dish could be so supremely tasty. Now, however, the food is bland, tasteless and oily. To start off with though, the menu was less than inspiring. Our starters of fritto misto and the langoustines (at a whopping £26!) were chosen due to a lack of anything better to pick but the porcini, mullet and courgette flower were indistinguishable from each other under the oil and batter. The langoustines were fine but nothing to write home about. We both ordered the salmon for main and it was sitting in a bed of oil alongside some very overcooked soggy vegetables, the whole dish was pretty embarrassing. Not feeling brave enough to touch the desserts, we settled on a cheese plate. What was strange is that they offered no chutneys so we had to ask for some. Minor but still, seems like a nice addition to a cheese plate apart from just having grapes. Overall the bill came to £200 for 2 and I have definitely had far superior meals for the same money and in nicer settings. River Cafe is now so overpriced for what it is and I cant believe how hard it is getting a reservation. Dont waste your time and money. What a disappointment!
Starters (squid, and a fig salad) were nothing special – yes the ingredients were very good quality but at this price you expect something in addition to that.Pasta – we chose one option with a walnut sauce which was bland beyond belief. The other was a penne (which appeared to be the dried variety rather than fresh) with a more successful game sauce. Still, I've had much better pasta at Jamie Oliver's Fifteen, frankly some of the items on Carluccio's and Piccolino's menus are tastier.Meat – Partridge was quite unpleasant – to be fair it's the first time either of us had tried it, so perhaps it's just not our thing. Vegetable accompaniments to the partridge had a very strong vinegar flavour which was not enjoyable. Pork loin was well executed and vegetable accompaniments were good – but at a price, I think a half-decent gastropub could produce a similar plate of food in terms of quality but somewhat more cheaply.Dessert & wine – Wine was fabulous and relatively reasonable in price. Pudding (walnut cake, and I forget the other option) were tasty but not outstanding.On the plus side, service was excellent, although I've never been to a restaurant with so many staff so it should be good. We enjoyed the atmosphere, although the tables were quite close together.Overall if you want a special Italian meal I would recommend a visit to Locanda Locatelli or Zafferano instead. 
Four of us went to lunch there today.
This restaurant has it all for me, it is a small neighbourhood Italian where the cooking is excellent almost beyond belief.

The brilliant head waiter is clearly deeply involved and wonderfully calm, just watching him operate it is clear that his cmmittment to well being of the customers and the food is total, this without his being intrusive in any way whatsoever. He gives the impression of being outwardly laid back but to do the job that he does it cannot be so.
To understand please imagine being in the hands of the greatest butler in the world, he understands everything, knows how everything works and is in total control without appearing to be so, a sort of uber Jeeves who glides around the room always shadowed by a waiter to take care of any immediate need or perceived defficiency. I had not realised that there were such people left in Britain. What a safe pair of hands. Clearly the owners of this superb ‘neighbourhood’ are going to make a fortune.
Now to the food.There were four of us and we ate as follows:
A small tub of hot Zucchine straws to go with the bread and olive oil to start with,it was really well done. There was a very good selection of bread and what appeared to be house made grissini sticks.Antipasto della Casa, this included, amongst other items, a hot chicken liver pate on oiled and baked bread, not only delicious but at seven pounds fifty great value.A ravioli floating in the most delious cream. Two people had risotto and one stripsof pasta with what tasted like desicated and marinated ox-tail, on the bill it says: 1 Pappa Rag Brs MC SP £11.50.
Following this we had very good expresso and one of our party had green tea.With the addition of two bottles of Belu water the bill for four came to £80 and change – with service at my discretion.That we did not drink wine did not phase them at all and when we left we were all discussing when it would be possible to return.This restaurant is awesome in as much as they serve up to date food at affordable prices. The decor and ambience smell of money and despite the fact that it is decorated for night-time business this is one of the few restaurants that really wants to deliver and succeeds in doing so.
My score is ten out of ten, something I have never done before and probably will never be able to do again.My only slight concern is that Tinello may, given time, seduce me away from La Poule au Pot and it will become my new local cafe.Pure magic! 
I've eaten here a couple of times and really enjoyed both the food – pizza dough is some of London's finest and I love all the little salads – but the pleasing buzz of the place has turned into a full-on bunfight. Despite attempts at crowd control by the excellent front-of-house ladies and the addition of the bar space, the walk-in-and-wait game left us so frazzled that we had to get out of there before our table was ready. Definitely worth a visit, but advance booking is the only way if you're planning to arrive at your table without having rammed someone's trilby/wayfarers down their throat. On the plus side, service is as excellent as in all the SHG venues and prices are pretty fair.    I had a really unpleasant experience at Pizza East. One waiter there rudely explained to me that it was nobody's fault that there was only black mud inside the clam in my fish stew, after I asked him about the chef's opinion on my discovery. (There was no apology whatsoever, which really got on my nerves.)And as my friend was on the way back from the ladies' room, she encountered that the very waiter was behind our back moaning about my complaint to other staff, calling me “unreasonable”. The manager was not of much help either. Nothing was done to resolve the problem. We were simply left extremely unsatisfied.I would not recommend it to anyone unless you expect everything could be dealt WITHOUT any assistance from the people who work there. Because it is surely rude and unprofessional.Z was pretty busy before and after we left on Sunday evening which speaks volumes. Not enamoured by the menu at first glance and disappointed that lobster wasn’t available, I didn’t expect great things. Oh, did my mood lift as we went for 3 savoury courses plus a shared pud which had been prepped & cooked to perfection throughout. Not a revolutionary experience but just scrummy yummy. Impressed by Maitre d’hôtel’s recommendation for my main plus a Sicilian wine – the name I’m still trying to recall. Naturally an Italian leaning was expected but with astounding choice and some reasonably priced bottles exactly as SqM states et al. Venue was chosen on the basis of easy walk from hotel and my partner fancying Italian fare that evening – glad he did as we’d return without hesitation. I made a reservation with Alloro for last Saturday night (4th December), explained to the chap on the phone that I was going to a show and that I would be with them by 10.20pm — he said no problem and that while the kitchen closes at 10.30, as long as I was seated by then — no problem. Well, we arrived at 10.20pm — and were informed that the kitchen was closed and there was no chance of a table. Neither the receptionist nor the head waiter apologised — and I was left to fend for myself. Luckily the Wolesely is just down the road and were lovely and we had a great meal there. Well-executed high quality Italian food (the gnocchi al pesto are particularly good: fluffy, light, melt-in-the mouth, such as only fresh handmade gnocchi can be), a deep, interesting (if pricey) wine list (including an excellent selection of wines by the glass) and attentive, discreet service make Alloro my one of my favourite Italian restaurants in London. Its popularity (especially with discerning fellow Italian foodies) also causes its only defect: it is quite noisy at lunchtime, which can be offputting when the company is as important as the food. a superb place for a client meeting combining excellent food, a buzzy atmosphere which is not stuffy. The only down side is that the wine list is a bit pricy. My tip is to book a table in the bar area for a cheaper/quicker meeting – I alway have the meat selection (one portion is enough for two) and then the cray fish/tomato pasta, finished with an expresso – a winner every time and good value. Having done some research we were excited to visit Semplice. It was a miserable rainy evening so some quality Italian cooking was much needed. What a dissapointment. We arrived late to find out guests frustrated by the service. Service shoddy lots of staff at the bar but none looking round the room. My main course spaghetti vongole was sent back with barely cooked spaghetti my partner's was left half eaten on the table (he never leaves food) no one asked what was wrong. In their defense mains of bream ? were lovely and looked a picture on the plate. £60 per head for two courses and wine. I loved my trip to Bocca di Lupo, the food was just as I had expected, perfect Italian cuisine. I enjoyed it so much that I even went to it's little ice cream place just opposite. It's called Gelupo and does amazing, fresh without any rubbish in it gelato. The quality was incredible and I found out about it on this dessert blog, check it out, it also good for other recommendations around the city.As this is a much reviewed restaurant, will restrict myself to brief comments on a very recent and much looked forward-to lunch. Go on bright days – makes the most of the atmosphere. Don't expect attentive service or uncramped surroundings. This is one of those “bustling” restaurants. Loos smell a bit once the ice in the urinals melts. My shared pasta starter was certainly home made, well cooked and authentic – but it was a bit bland (pasta, potato slices and pesto) and boring. Also, pasta can be cooked TOO “al dente”. My companion, who had made the choice, loved it so “you pays your money…”. My main course was worth the effort of travelling in London in the middle of the to taste. I had pork and foie gras sausages (2) with pearl barley and mushroom cooked as though this was a risotto. I just wish there had been more of the pearl barley to set-off the richness of the sausages. This was a cracking (in the Wallace and Grommit sense) dish. hey offer post-theatre reservations and we arrived at 10:45PM. As soon as we arrived we were rushed to order as we were informed that the kitchen closed at 11:00. Three waiters chased us to decided what to have.I ordered a good Sicilian wine but it only arrived after the food was served, despite my remarks to the waiters.The food was mediocre: my fish was undercooked, my friend's pasta was extremely spicy and my other friend's risotto was a melt of cheese. When we complained about the food, we got no response from the Chef or staff.Everybody in the restaurant was running around in order to leave and couldn't take care of patrons any longer.It was like dining in a train station, with all the rush, but I actually think that a fish and chips or a spaghetti in a train station would be better than here.Good points – quality of most of the food was excellent. We had mixed starters, the highlight being the crudita di mare – raw scallops, sea bream, prawns and langoustine, which were so fresh they just melted in your mouth. I also had the pork and fois gras sausage, which was bursting with flavour. Clean plates all round. The sommelier was also very helpful – we specified what we were eating and how much we wanted to spend, and he came up with a fantastic recommendation (which was not something we would usually have gone for).Bad points – the service was a little brusque. We asked for help in selecting our food (not having an idea of the size of small/ large plates), but really didn't get much assistance, other than a “look at that table's food over there”. When booking, it was not mentioned that we would have to vacate the table within 2 hours – this was only confirmed the day before during a confirmation call. We had planned a celebratory meal with friends, but in the event, had finished coffee by the time we were asked to vacate the table.
I loved my trip to Bocca di Lupo, the food was just as I had expected, perfect Italian cuisine. I enjoyed it so much that I even went to it's little ice cream place just opposite. It's called Gelupo and does amazing, fresh without any rubbish in it gelato. The quality was incredible and I found out about it on this dessert blog, check it out, it also good for other recommendations around the city.As this is a much reviewed restaurant, will restrict myself to brief comments on a very recent and much looked forward-to lunch. Go on bright days – makes the most of the atmosphere. Don't expect attentive service or uncramped surroundings. This is one of those “bustling” restaurants. Loos smell a bit once the ice in the urinals melts. My shared pasta starter was certainly home made, well cooked and authentic – but it was a bit bland (pasta, potato slices and pesto) and boring. Also, pasta can be cooked TOO “al dente”. My companion, who had made the choice, loved it so “you pays your money…”. My main course was worth the effort of travelling in London in the middle of the to taste. I had pork and foie gras sausages (2) with pearl barley and mushroom cooked as though this was a risotto. I just wish there had been more of the pearl barley to set-off the richness of the sausages. This was a cracking (in the Wallace and Grommit sense) dish. Overall, enjoyed the experience and may return but can't quite understand all the hype or the Squaremeal Editor's star rating.     My sister gypsy has been obsessed to dine in this restaurant since she heard about it from Jimmy James, but we failed to try it on both occasions that she was in town, so she finally had her wish come true the third time around when we made a go for it today. As the case with any good restaurants around London, weekends is their most busy time so a reservation is always worth it, so I have booked my reservation whilst we were still in Edinburgh to come this Wednesday. To get there is a challenge not being that familiar with every nook and cranny of Notting Hill but we eventually found it after a very exhaustive search. Well, this restaurant better be worth all the hype! It was packed with what seems like yuppies to me, the Italian waiter who welcomed us and pointed us to our seat was very friendly, I suppose that goes for all Italians, who seems to be almost always sweet.For starters, we opted for their once-only visit to the buffet table but with a huge plate to put your selection in, at £7.00 it’s a steal. Just look at the choices! I ordered a glass of the Pinot Grigio, Andrea di Pec Igt. (£4.50) which was fruity enough and tasted so much better after having had the buffalo mozzarella. And their olives are to die for.For our main course gypsy chose the flat spaghetti with sea-food in a fresh tomato sauce (£10) and being a huge anchovies fan, I chose their pizza capricciosa – artichokes, anchovies, sweet peppers, ham and egg (£8.50). It was pure heaven. I have always loved Italian food but was always stuck with the franchise restaurants which is really not that bad at all but then of course you’ll be singing a different tune once youve tasted a much better Italian meal elsewhere. Now my sister having just returned from Verona where all she ate the 4 days she was there was (you guessed it right) purely Italian food vouched that the food at Osteria was the best outside Italy. For afters we settled to share the Chocolate cheesecake served with chocolate sauce which just melted in our tongue, it was absolutely divine and a moccachino. Osteria Basilico didnt disappoint us at all and I will no doubt go back there again one day to try the rest in their menu. A three-course meal for two with wine will cost around £40-45 plus a 12.50 % discretionary service charge added to the bill.Very good bar area in addition to indoor and outdoor seating for restaurants – and large outdoor area is very well heated. Location (Sloane Square) makes it really useful for shopping lunches as well as dinners – not too formal although scrubs up well if formality required. Speedy service; menu changes reasonably often; food is not over-fiddled with or overpriced. I have been here many times and always think the Squaremeal reviews are a little unfair. Last night we had a great dinner, the Tuna was delicious and the highlight, definitely go for it. Service was good until we wanted the bill and then took ages, but the staff are always very helpful. However this place is underrated and well worth every penny. Whilst it may not be cheap, I have always found the service at Locanda Locatelli to be excellent. In fact it was the service that from day one, drew me in and encouraged me to make repeat visits. The food is excellent and LL is home to the best scallop dish I have ever had… The Capesante Al'Aspretto di Zafferano is a revelation of carefully balanced flavours. Plump scallops with celery and a saffron vinaigrette are a great way to kick off the meal. The one thing about LL is that the food is pretty simple. If its innovative, stylised cooking you are looking for then you are better off spending your money elsewhere. My Italian friends blast LL for what is essentially overpriced and very simple and rustic cookery… But where quality is concerned, there is no scrimping here. The standard of cookery is excellent, even if the skill involved isn't overly complex.I'm sorry that my first review for 2011 has to be a negative one. My last visit to Locanda Locatelli was about a year ago and I thought the food then was clever and inventive. So I was really quite excited about going back. Sadly like the stock market, restaurants can go down as well as up, and this was the case with Locanda. This time the beef carpaccio, which I usually love, seemed tasteless and the stewed neck of lamb was fatty and stringy. I understand that the vogue (culinary or financial I wonder) is to use cheap, unloved cuts but this one truly was a case of mutton dressed up as lamb. To charge £27.50 for it therefore showed that Signor Locatelli has a stronger nerve than most. For me however, I'll be voting with my feet; it's back to Incanto, my local in Harrow on the Hill where the food is nearly as good for half the price. Oh and if the waiters had smiled even once I would have put their service score up a point. I had a very disappointing experience at Locanda Locatelli last night. I first went a couple of years ago and rated it as one of my best ever meals out, however yesterday was a big let down, reflecting some of the other recent reviews. Firstly, the service was very poor – after fifteen minutes of sitting at our table I had to call a waiter over in order to ask if we could have an apperitif, not something you'd expect from a restaurant I used to consider one of the best in London. It then took over an hour from sitting down to getting our first course. We hadn't ordered anything unusual, and the restaurant was only half full (we had a relatively early sitting), so I can see no reason for this delay.I invited a client and a colleague of mine to this well recommended place. We all went for the flagship starter : the famous fish raviolis. 4 large raviolis in attractive presentation, sumptuous colors, intense flavors enhanced by the distinctive aromas of saffron and other subtle spices. Rest of the meal was excellent (cod and sea-bass), and ravioli again for the dessert made an original ending. Service had not been over-friendly but very good all along. We kept a very happy memory of our meal until… we all started falling very sick the next day. We believe it was due to the fish raviolis which the three of us had. I was particularly embarrassed as I was taking my clients out. I complained by e-mail and telephone to the restaurant, and got in reply a letter on word document by the chef. I will not recommend this restaurant, as i cannot believe the three of us falling sick at the same time the next day is a pure coincidence. I had three significant problems in the last 10 years with “processed fish” (i.e. fish minced and not appearing as a stand alone dish), one of them being a tuna fish tartar at the Divelec in Paris in 2002 (1 Michelin stars) but in that case Mr Divellec himself called me to excuse himself and discuss the matter. I have since been to the Le Divellec many times with great satisfaction. This just shows processed fish just need to be taken care of with extra care and it is not a meal for the average restaurant. You have been warned! As well as great food and service, this restaurant is excellent for access, facilities (good disabled loo) and attitude if you are a wheelchair-user. Entry from the street is smooth. You can sit easily in the wheelchair at a table (or transfer to a chair ) and the layout is spacious enough to manouevre round without disturbing any other diners. The staff are helpful and considerate. We found this restaurant after a huge amount of research both on foot and on the internet looking for somewhere to combine with a theatre trip. Excellent Itailian food – do try the ravioli! Five of us booked Latium after seeing the great reviews. We were not disappointed. The signature ravioli were delicious as was the pork belly, veal rump and zucchini flowers stuffed with mozzarella. The service was also great, with us only having to ask the waiter once for a wine refill.



This is our Quattro's Italian Restaurant page, we have listed the full address of Quattro's as well as phone numbers, web sites and opening times.
Quattro's is in Preston, Quattro's may offer various types of Italian food such as Antipasta, Raviolli, Carbonara, Bruschetta, Minestrone, Marinara, Taglietelli, Ciabatta, Tiramisu much more in Preston.
You can also view the opening times and see additional information on Quattro's is they have filled in the information.
If you have been in and ate in this Italian Restaurant then please remember to leave a review or comment.
Please remember that Quattro's may offer many different types of Italian dishes and food. You can contact Quattro's using the information we provide below in order to find out what Italian dishes are on offer, opening times or to make a reservation. This is our Pietruccio Italian Restaurant page, we have listed the full address of Pietruccio as well as phone numbers, web sites and opening times.
Pietruccio is in Hamilton, Pietruccio may offer various types of Italian food such as Antipasta, Raviolli, Carbonara, Bruschetta, Minestrone, Marinara, Taglietelli, Ciabatta, Tiramisu much more in Hamilton.
You can also view the opening times and see additional information on Pietruccio is they have filled in the information.
If you have been in and ate in this Italian Restaurant then please remember to leave a review or comment.
Please remember that Pietruccio may offer many different types of Italian dishes and food. You can contact Pietruccio using the information we provide below in order to find out what Italian dishes are on offer, opening times or to make a reservation. 
In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.
I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.
For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.
The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.
Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.
Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.
Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.
Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays
It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.
Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.
In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.
Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.
The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.
Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.
She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:
1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch
2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs.
3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon
4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon
5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun
6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town)
7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue
8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon
9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun
10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun
11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch
Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.
Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."
And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.
And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.
Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.
He replies:
"Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"
Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
"Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
"The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
"Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
"Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."
The Bottom Line
Three of us shared two appetizers, and each had an entree. Before tax and tip, and excluding beverages, our total bill came to about $115. The entrees we ordered averaged $35, but most menu items cost less than those. Dessert prices start at about $6.
Pros
1. Entrees are excellent.
2. Prompt, courteous service.
3. Nice environment.
Cons
1. Expensive.
Description
1. Tomaso's dining room is simple but nice. The owner included his standard cherubs on the ceiling!
2. There is a bar that's not very separated from the dining room. TVs in upscale restaurants bug me.
3. This bar was not a 'meat market'. It seemed like just a few friends meeting for a happy hour snack.
4. A sign read that appetizers were half price until 7 p.m., but that only applies to the bar area. :-(
5. The bread at Tomaso's was a disappointment. Not warm, crust not crunchy.
6. I feel that places that serve olive oil for bread should have fresh ground pepper. None offered.
7. While we were there, a couple came in, sat down, looked at the menu and left. Sticker shock.
8. This place seems to attract more of a middle aged crowd. I guess that's who can afford it!
9. The entrees were excellent, and overshadowed those small negatives that were minor in comparison.
Guide Review - Tomaso's Italian Restaurant
Our visit to Tomaso's was a pleasant one. We had visited Tomaso's original location in Phoenix years ago, but this was our first chance to visit the Chandler location.
My friends both liked the Fried Calamari appetizer better than I did. I found it a little over breaded, but at least it was tender and not chewy. Definitely a portion large enough for two to share. I enjoyed the Mediterranean Platter -- real anchovies! -- I enjoy the variety and the choices were light and very tasty. Again, large enough to share.
The entrees at Tomaso's were the highlight of the meal. The Lobster and Seafood Cioppino was wonderful, too huge to finish. The Scampi with Lobster Ravioli was different than typical scampi; it was more like a garlicky marsala sauce, and had mushrooms. Although I love traditional scampi, I'd go back for this entree again. The Osso Buco was also a hit, although my eating companion snagged some of my vegetables to go with it.
Here's a warning about Tomaso's web site: as of this writing it is incomplete (where's the dinner menu? where are the desserts?) and the prices are out of date. They are all higher now.
Tomaso's gets high ratings for their tiramisu--we tried a sample and it was excellent. We were just too full to order dessert!
If you check around (see link below for "Coupons and Discounts") you can sometimes find discounted certificates for Tomaso's.
We'll be going back to Tomaso's again, and we're looking forward to it.
Caffee Macaroni (click to see more) is a real Italian                 restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about                 $25 per diner. It's a small place in @ 59 Columbus / 956-9737
                
                
North Beach Restaurant
                
Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several                 complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks). 1512 Stockton Street @ Columbus in the heart of                 415-392-1700
                
Our Readers Recommend:
                
Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..."                 (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a                 whopping $35 per person.
                1257 Taylor @ Washington 415-922-2545
                
Ti Piacera - Northern Italian restaurant recommended by a reader for great value.
                
1507 Polk St. 415-771-9946
                
Word on the street is... "Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro.                 Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently                 had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu."
Rose Pistola makes excellent trendy Italian food on Columbus Street in                 
Rose Pistola is a beautiful restaurant and its North Beach location is ideal. The service is awesome and the food is delicious. Expect to                 spend about $50 per person for dinner and about $30 per person for lunch.
                
A long bar decorates the space with natural wood and halogen lighting. The food is Italian with a California flair. They grill a variety of                 fish and meats, feature brick oven pizza's, and have a variety of pasta's with great wines.
                
B.W. raves in August 1997, "Rose Pistola was wonderful! Didn't have reservations and walked in and got seated immediately. Had                 outstanding meal, great service and ideas I have already imitated in my kitchen. Their Heirloom tomato salad, gnocchi with calamari sauce and my favorite Summer                 Pudding were outstanding..."
                
Rose Pistola is highly recommended and very popular so make sure to make reservations well in advance or consider visiting at an off hour.                 Andy's rating is an "A-" for a great restaurant but an elitist air.
                
Rose Pistola also features live music, mostly jazz, on most nights. Call for details.
Little City is among the coolest restaurants in SF. Great food served tapas style with an Italian bent. Located in a prime area in North                 Beach right across from a large park. This is a happening place and has been for years. Andy's rating is a "A-" with dinners per person running                 around $25 with drinks. The atmosphere is festive and open with an electricity in the air. Great food, good service, and cool atmosphere. Little City is a                 lot of fun and a relatively unappreciated place.
The Stinking Rose is fun, but touristy with great, fast service and good food. They use more GARLIC than you could ever imagine.                 It's great if you love garlic -- they use plenty. I recommend it, even though it's very touristy. Cost is around $25 per person and the "Stinker"                 is in
People like me, who spend their evenings haunting vast, baroque dining establishments, puzzling over crowded, multipage menus and gorging (or trying not to gorge) on remorselessly similar variations of foie gras or molten-chocolate cake, often dream of escaping to a certain kind of restaurant. This imaginary restaurant is a neighborly place, tucked on an out-of-the-way street, where waiters aren’t excessively fawning and the prices aren’t excessively high. The room is big enough not to be poky, but not so big that you have to shout to be heard. There are no trendy circular lampshades hanging from the ceiling, no freakishly large flower arrangements sprouting to the sky. There is a bar to dine at, and possibly two. The food is various but not busy, and prepared in a way that highlights the ingredients instead of the vaunted skills of an egotistical chef. It’s a restaurant, in other words, where one would be happy to dine on an off night, on his own nickel, when it wasn’t his dubious professional duty to devour everything in sight. 
Bellavitae, which opened not long ago on a nondescript corner of Minetta Lane and Sixth Avenue in the Village, is this kind of place. The modest little Italian restaurant occupies a single long room, with a bar in the back for eating and one in the front for sipping wines. The floor is covered with wide wood planking, and the ceiling with countrified beams. The proprietor, Rolando Beramendi, supplies many of the city’s leading Italian restaurants with their fancy imported olive oils, pastas, and vinegars, and Bellavitae (the name is a mix of the Latin for “beautiful life” and “beautiful vines”) is designed to showcase these rarefied products. So there are jars of chestnut honey from Lake Como ($17) set up along the walls, slim bottles of ancient Leonardi balsamic vinegar (a 100-year-old bottle costs $500), and little bags of baldo and arborio rice ($4 and $4.75, respectively) supplied by a contessa from the Piedmont region of Italy. There’s even a photograph of the rice-growing contessa on the wall, along with a rogues’ gallery (grizzled vintners, merry honey-makers, etc.) of Mr. Beramendi’s other suppliers.
        
If all this sounds a little precious, well, that’s because it is. Bellavitae is already a favorite haunt of delicate, food-obsessed souls who murmur over the quality of the green Nocellara olives (from Sicily) and the radicchio, which is state-inspected and picked by hand in the hills around Treviso. Unlike at some of the city’s other high-minded, ingredient-conscious foodie palaces, however, the menu here is presented casually, within the context of a familiar culinary tradition, and it’s relatively cheap. It’s the kind of straightforward, unfussy food that would send you into paroxysms of tourist glee if you came across it at a trattoria in the hills around Treviso, say. Like little pewter cocktail bowls filled with meatballs fried in extra-virgin olive oil, for instance, or grilled figs from Calabria bundled in strips of pancetta. There are toasty crostini also, layered with Gorgonzola drizzled with that chestnut honey from Lake Como or puréed chickpeas splashed with Sicilian olive oil and flakes of bottarga or stacked with chicken livers mashed, in the Tuscan style, with anchovies, garlic, and a trace of white-wine vinegar.
        
I liked the chicken-liver crostini the best, and would have ordered another platter or two if my cholesterol-fixated wife hadn’t threatened to grapple me to the floor. I also liked the figs, and the fried risotto balls, which are meager in size (they look like Tater Tots) but laced with nice bits of tomato and mozzarella. Before the heftier courses arrive, it’s also possible to indulge in a good, milky buffalo mozzarella tangled with prosciutto, and a variety of chaste vegetable dishes designed, in high Greenmarket fashion, to be admired as much for their beauty as for their taste. I sampled a decent salad made with perfectly spiky wild arugula leaves, and a wet, slightly wan-tasting plate of chickpeas flavored, it seemed, with nothing very much at all. The very good, very green fava beans are served uncooked, with nuggets of pecorino cheese, and then there’s the fancy Treviso radicchio, which isn’t bulbous like radicchios of my acquaintance, or even terribly bitter, but soft, almost sweet (here it’s flavored with more balsamic), and twirled with ribbons of grilled pancetta.
        
Unlike with the majority of brawny, overstuffed Italian restaurants these days, there are only four pasta dishes on the menu at Bellavitae, and four secondi courses, and they are more or less interchangeable as main courses. All the pastas I sampled were good, especially the thin tubes of egg garganelli tossed with an authentically beefy Bolognese ragù, chewy triangles of farro-based “pizzichi” pasta smothered in a rich porcini-mushroom-and-pancetta sauce, and a well-cooked bowl of bucatini piled with an assortment of shellfish. Among the secondi, my sliced steak could have been sliced thicker, and the tepid marinated sardines were obliterated by too many sweet onions. But the simple oven-baked pork fillet tasted fine, as did the chicken cacciatore, which was swimming in a rich tomato sauce filled with black Ligurian olives. There’s also a superior fritto misto, made with hunks of rabbit on one evening I visited and cod on another, and served, both times, with segments of fennel rolled in semolina and crunchy fried slices of Meyer lemon.
        
The menu changes often at Bellavitae, but many of the more exotic ingredients (extra-virgin olive oils, caperberries from Sicily, etc.) are constant, and many of them are for sale. The prices of these items are listed on the back of the menu, and some of the waiters hawk them a little too profusely. But this didn’t seem to faze the eclectic crowd, which included, on one of the nights I dropped in, several gigantic members of the New York Giants football team, all taking prim bites of pasta and squinting curiously at the labels of obscure Italian wines. Presumably these discerning gentlemen enjoyed the desserts, which are unfussy and agreeably Italian. There are wedges of spongy panettone, a dense slab of chocolate semifreddo dribbled with hazelnut liqueur, and a creamy, perfectly wobbly panna cotta doused with a grape essence called saba. Best of all are the gelati, which come drowned in espresso or infused with lemon marmalade and a mini shot of grappino (grappa flavored with Meyer lemons). Taste them delicately, like we weary gourmet professionals are taught to do, or do the natural thing and devour them whole.
                                        
From the mezzanine-level of The Italian, looking south through acres of plate glass, you've got a first-class, bird's-eye view of Rosati across Flinders Lane. There's a nice symmetry to it.
The once-iconic bar-restaurant - set up in late 1986 by Piero Gesualdi and Ronnie di Stasio - almost instantly became the pre-Crash, must-visit, must drink, must eat, must coffee, see and be seen epicentre of buoyant Melbourne.
And it's where The Italian's namesake - Roberto Scheriani - started his career as a waiter.
I don't remember what was opposite Rosati back then, but it wasn't 101 Collins; the corporate Tower of Power didn't see its first tenant until March 1991 and as a young man bussing tables and learning the moves, I doubt Scheriani ever dreamt that one day the most important commercial building in the city would be directly opposite and that he'd have his name on the door of its only - huge - restaurant.
Life's road has taken many of us on an interesting, not always smooth, journey and there have been times - through the rise and fall of Ristorante Roberto and R-Bar - when Scheriani might have wondered if it could ever get this good. Clearly, he never stopped believing it could.
When he set up The Italian in premises off Flinders Lane a few years ago, who knew it would lead to this? A stylish, vast, multi-level diner occupying not only a brilliant, light-filled courtyard, but in a commercially amazing location at the back door of a building whose tenants might fill a business who's who.
This former gallery, where Scheriani reopened The Italian a few months back, is an amazing home for a restaurant. The cream of Melbourne's law firms and investment banks ascend and descend by lift daily, and most go right past Scheriani's front door.
There's a cafe-bar area with an apron that extends into the building's common space; up a few steps, there's a voluminous main dining room, all timber, glass and red leather with soaring ceilings and windows, some smart architectural accessories and a welcoming but inoffensive modern aesthetic.
It feels very much a restaurant of the bustling, commercial hub, a city restaurant that is the antithesis of the hidden laneway gems we so often identify as being the essence of Melbourne. I like it a lot.
And there's that mezzanine level: it doesn't get too much of a work-out by night, but at lunch every available chair has an expensive pair of suit pants on it. Beyond good service, an attractive wine list at fair prices and a degree of discretion when it comes to seating, Scheriani has learned plenty about catering to the corporates during his years in the city. The food is simple but well put together -flash rustic, you might call it - the flavours distinct, the menu presentation accessible, the value-for-money fair. For this he relies on chef Andy Logue, with him for three years (almost). It's Italian, but it's not laid on with a trowel.
Great Chicago Italian Restaurant Reviews will bring you on a journey through some of the best Italian restaurants in Chicago.
Italian food in Chicago is rich in history. Families who immigrated to Chicago in the early 1900's settled mainly in the areas of 24th and Oakley and Taylor Street. This neighborhood now known 
Places like Bacchanalia, Tufano's, Tuscany, La Fontanella have been there for years serving regional specialties from Northern and Southern Italy.
In the Downtown area of the city you'll also find places like The Italian Village, the oldest Italian restaurant in the city which houses three restaurants in one. This place has been owned by the Capitanini family for three generations. You shouldn't visit or live in Chicago without dining in this historic restaurant.
Off of Chicago's Magnificent Mile Michigan you'll find a few of my favorites like Bice, Volare and Spiaggia. Vibrant and exciting best describes these establishments who feature some of the best authentic Italian dishes in the country.
On the North side I will give you reviews from places like Vinci, Mia Francesca and La Bocca della Verita just to name a few.
And last but not least, I don't want to exclude my friend Armando at La Scarola.
I'm going to begin on the South side and work my way North, so it may take me a while to complete this list. I'll try to enjoy myself with all this hard work ahead of me. Hopefully I'll be able to snatch a recipe here and there.
Recently I discovered Gioco on the city's southeast side which I will cover in my first review. This fairly new Tuscan style restaurant was a place I've wanted to visit for a long time.
Let's begin our adventures into Chicago's great Italian restaurants.
I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation. 
In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they.
The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers.
I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. 
I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening.
We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 
My parents lived in Italy for two years, and absolutely loved it. The only disappointment is that I wasn't around, as I have a fondness for Italian food. I enjoy eating, and always like restaurants that offer
        
generous portions with an eye for quality. Many times I have gone to an establishment with rave reviews, and walk out feeling less than satisfied. This has not been the case with Maggiano's Little Italy, and I have visited their Tysons Corner, VA location twice in the past year. As soon as work permits, I shall return to the place that brings a slice of Italy to the United States.
The first time I went to Maggiano's Little Italy, was with my parents. They had been there on previous occasions, and fully recommended it. The main reason they enjoy it, is that it reminds them of their time in Italy. Walking in the restaurant was indeed a cultural experience, and the first thing you hear is Italian music piping in over the speakers inside. The whole dining room had a Italian motif, and it is loud and crowded.(That's okay-just like Italy, according to my folks!) We were given seats at a large table, which had very comfortable seating.
Almost immediately after taking our places, bread was delivered to the table. It was delicious, and there were different varieties to choose from. There were large amounts of butter, and our water glasses were filled with ice cold water. Our server brought us salads, and they were very good.(Good portions as well!) We looked at the menus, and decided our meals. I have always been a fan of chicken parmigiana, and gave my order to the server. The timing between the salads/appetizers before the meal arrived, was perfect in every way. I could not believe the size of the meal that arrived in front of me, and it was there I discovered the true nature of Italian eating. 
Italians are very generous people, and always make sure you never leave dinner with an empty stomach. My parents' landlord used to say, "Monja Monja."(Eat more) I felt that kind spirit with the size of my meal, and the two chicken breasts were fried to perfection.They were topped with marinara and cheese, on top of a large batch of perfectly cooked spaghetti. I felt as if in Heaven, as it was the most delicious meal I have had to this day. Somehow I finished it, and did not eat until the next morning.
The food quality is superb, and their Chicken Parmigiana is still the best meal I have ever had. I have been back since, and tried the Fillet of Salmon on my next visit. It was not quite as large, but still a very filling meal. The taste was outstanding, as the lemon flavoring was far from overpowering. It also had spinach with it, and the appetizer of Mozzarella Sticks went well with the meal. All of the food items have been fresh, and you can taste the dedication and passion that go into cooking there.
Maggiano's Little Italy is very reasonably priced, considering what you get for the money. My meals were in the $14-18 range, and the appetizer was $9. Most people seem to be unable to finish, and the servers are always great about wrapping up items to go. I cannot say enough about their service, as it is much better than some absurdly expensive restaurants I have been to. They always make the extra effort, and have always been responsive to our needs and questions. They obviously have a lot of training, as all servers have been quite knowledgeable about the menu. I was quite impressed by their management as well-on my last visit a manager was asking customers about how the service/food was. This level of dedication, with outstanding food quality, has earned my respect and repeated patronage. I look forward to my next visit, and hope you will give Maggiano's Little Italy a try.
The only negative point about Maggiano's, is their popularity. I suggest making a reservation, as they get extremely busy during lunch and dinner times. During the weekends, there are long lines that seem to never end. However, once you are in it is worth it. The loud crowds may turn some off, but it is necessary for the "true Italian atmosphere." Maggiano's Little Italy is a great restaurant, and that is why they are a popular place to eat lunch or dinner.
Caesar's Restaurant has been in San Francisco for over 50 years, and I have been going there for at least 20 of those years. The food is served family style, it's authentic Italian, and the waitstaff is some of the best I've had and very friendly.
You certainly can't go wrong with the voted "City's Best" calamari that is fried to perfection. The veal steak (when available) is to die for, and their famous crab cioppino, available Tuesday thru Friday, is outrageous. Their pastas are wonderful, and if you’re lucky, you'll go on a night when chef-owner Matteo Crivello serves his Italian short ribs that melt in your mouth, a real treat.
The decor sets you back to the 50s era of what a gentlemen’s club might have been like. Italian light fixtures in the main dining room offer a soft glow. The leather, high back booths offer a bit of privacy, yet have an openness about them. The bar in the front is dark wood, and runs the length of the room, and has an inviting feel.
The restaurant also serves a five-course meal for a very reasonable price. They start you with antipasti, which includes an array of Italian meats and pickled vegetables. The next course is the wonderful minestrone soup, followed by a house salad. If you’re not too full, you choose from one of three entrees, which is followed by coffee, Italian spumoni ice cream, or Bugia, which is a type of thin Italian cookie dusted with powdered sugar and is made fresh at the restaurant daily. These are a must-have to end the meal. They instantly melt in your mouth. You can't find these anywhere else! They also have a hot zabaione, which is smooth and creamy, and if you have room, don't pass this up!
Their standard menu offers a large selection of choices as well as nightly specials.
We selected a Three Course dinner, but the restaurant added an extra fourth course:
Course #1. Assorted Antipasti: Plate of three cold cuts, marinated white cannelloni beans, tomatoes with mozzarella cheese.
Course #2. Soup or Salad: My fiancé ordered the minestrone soup, and I had a small shrimp mix green salad.
Course #3. Capellini with Neapolitan sauce. (Compliments of the chef)
Course #4. My fiancé ordered the Cannelloni alla Romana, which was filled with a delightful blend of pork, veal, and spinach and baked until golden brown, all smothered with cheese in a zesty tomato sauce. I ordered the special, Sicilian Seafood Pasta, which consisted of clams, mussels, white fish, salmon, and Dungeness crab served over a bed of linguine with a light and spicy tomato sauce.
Course #5. Dessert: Bugia (Sicilian cookies) with coffee.
Beverages: I had a Campari and soda while my fiancé enjoyed a glass of Chardonnay at the antique 50-60 year-old bar. It is worth sitting there and having a cocktail and taking in the surroundings of what old San Francisco might have been like back then.
There is one reason we keep going back, it's classic San Francisco North Beach Italian comfort food that will put a smile on your face every time. Simply put, I can't think of anywhere better to experience that then at Caesar’s Restaurant.
Reservations are recommended and they also offer Valet Parking for $6.00.
Caesar's really is old school. When it comes to true Italian restaurants, they excel in every aspect. The service is friendly and authentic, and everyone was extremely hospitable. Walking in without any reservations, the kind hostess seated us immediately. The layout is a bit funny, as there are three separate rooms that make up the restaurant, but our table in the room adjacent to the bar was comfortable.
Immediately, I noticed that we were surrounded by families. Grandparents, their children, and their grandchildren were seated on all sides of us, and everyone was having a great time. My boyfriend and I (probably the only couple under 50) thoroughly enjoyed our Sicilian waiter and were served very quickly.
For a meat eater, their menu is really extensive. I ordered the gnocchi (my favorite Italian food), but they were completely out, so I opted for the capellini pasta, which was nice and light with just the right amount of chunky red sauce. The boyfriend had prosciutto and melon for a starter, which he really liked. He ordered the seafood combination plate for an entree.
The prices were very reasonable, even for the seven-course meal, which we both thought about getting, but we had to catch a show at Cobb's and figured the multiple courses would take a bit more time than we had to spare. Between dishes, the waiter brought over a plate of pasta with meat sauce for him to enjoy, which was a really nice touch. We weren't sure if it was because he didn't order a pasta dish for his entree, or because they just do that to keep people busy while they're waiting for their food. I noticed he did that for every other table as well, so it was a nice little bonus for him.
The decor is very classic and simple, but one thing I didn't really like was the lighting -- it was almost like a cafeteria inside the dining rooms. The interiors weren't ugly, but an update on the decor might make it just that much more interesting. We went in thinking it would be just a mediocre Italian place, but everything we had was great and the service was fantastic. Overall, we were very happy with our experience at Caesar's and will probably return in the coming weeks.
I can appreciate (and truly enjoy) hip gourmet Italian restaurants like Delfina or Beretta, but I’m also grateful for places like Caesar’s Italian Restaurant with its comfortable Old World atmosphere, the tuxedoed waiters, the white tablecloths, and the dining room bustle of large, multi-generational families. It’s not the kind of restaurant I tend to frequent, so I was immediately happy to be there.
We were a group of eight, and each of us ordered the seven-course meal, for which Caesar’s is known. With any entrée (and for roughly $30.00) you get a salad, vegetable soup, assorted antipasti, pasta with meat sauce, dessert, and coffee. The salad was fairly plain in appearance -- iceberg lettuce, slivers of carrot, a slice of beet -- but the mystery dressing (some kind of Italian/Thousand Island concoction), was surprisingly good. And everyone raved about the vegetable soup -- simple and warm, perfect for the cold night.
The assorted antipasti arrived as a group of shared plates -- there were the usual Italian meats and cheeses, green olives, marinated mushrooms, some kind of mystery vegetable that was covered in a slightly spicy sauce. Particularly good was the calamari, which tasted more like a ceviche -- lemony and cold. Of all the courses, this was my favorite, but also the most problematic.
The plates arrived all at once, with none of the waiters identifying what was what (I’m still unclear what that mystery vegetable was). We also were unclear if the calamari we’d ordered separately as an appetizer was the same calamari as the ceviche (it wasn’t). But the course was delicious, which perhaps was why we were so bummed out by the portions. While seven courses is certainly filling, we each had about two bites of the antipasti items. From the look of things, the antipasti for eight could have been the antipasti for two, and some of the items were taken away before we were finished with them.
Next was a saucer of penne pasta with meat sauce. It was fine, but nothing I needed to finish.
For my entrée, I ordered the veal scaloppine. The meat was tender, coated lightly with flour, and covered with mushrooms in a Marsala sauce. It was tasty, though not necessarily better than any other veal scaloppine I’d had before (I preferred my friend’s veal piccata and its pleasant, lemony flavor). Most of the entrees came with potatoes and a boiled vegetable that was either bok choy or kale (we couldn’t decide which) and they each served their purpose: a starch and something green. Other entrees at the table were the gnocchi, the pork chop, and the (somewhat greasy) halibut. I tasted each of them, and all were perfectly good. In fact, “perfectly good” is a fair assessment of Caesar’s food as a whole -- nothing surprising, just solid fare that one would expect from an old style Italian family restaurant.
Spumoni and coffee ended the meal. The spumoni was fine (Dreyer’s?) and the coffee was predictably mediocre.
The service was good, if a little frenetic, which I didn’t really mind. Given the chaos in the dining room (the place was packed), I was impressed that our waiter was able to maintain his charming demeanor, and after initially forgetting our calamari appetizer, he brought it to us on the house.
Though a bit pricey for what you get (about $50.00 a person), it might be fun to return with a large group of friends. The food at Caesar’s is fine, but it’s not the reason to come; there’s better to be had in North Beach or the Mission, and you can avoid the schlep to Caesar’s Fisherman’s Wharf location.
For me, Caesar’s is about atmosphere: the good bustle of multi-ethnic and multi-generational diners -- many of whom seemed like regulars -- celebrating birthdays and anniversaries. The waitstaff was friendly, conversational, even a little theatrical in the moments they stopped to chat. And the restaurant itself, with its vinyl booths, family photo-covered walls, and (what seemed to be) silk plants, felt authentic in its own way: it’s a restaurant that insists on being itself, which makes for a welcoming and comfortable dining experience for all who visit.
For anyone who mourns the loss of Ricardo's Restaurant, a new connection exists: Joe Vittorio, a member of the family that ran Ricardo's, recently bought Minico's in Westerville.
Best accessed via Rt. 161, it is situated in an unassuming space on S. Sunbury Road.
Pizzas are a big deal on the menu.
The all-the-way pizza ($13.45 for a 10-inch pie) is just that, without being overloaded. The cracker-crisp crust carries the right amount of cheese; a judicious amount of tomato sauce; reasonable amounts of mild Italian sausage and thin pepperoni; and a surprisingly nice quantity of sweet peppers, onions and mushrooms.
The sauteed chicken ($11.45) is another pleasant surprise. The thinly sliced meat is sauteed in olive oil along with broccoli, cauliflower, onion, sliced California olives and dried herbs - including parsley, basil and oregano.
The application of toppings isn't heavy-handed. Want cheese? The traditional old-time shaker of grated cheese is on the table, along with the equally venerable shaker of hot-pepper flakes.
Each table also has a bottle of the house-made Italian-American dressing to go with the house salad (iceberg lettuce, carrot, cabbage, pepperoni, California olives and pepperoncini) that comes with each entree (or $2.95 a la carte).
The white spaghetti ($9.35) is a throwback to the days when it was a daring dish to offer in an Italian-American restaurant - when garlic wasn't as ubiquitous. The Minico's version is authentically light on garlic and mercifully light on oil and cheese.
The dish can be enhanced with several shakings of the grated cheese.
The lasagna ($11.95) is truly multilayered, with a half-dozen or so sheets of pasta separating layers of ground meat and creamy cheeses, including a smoked provolone that provides a slightly smoky flavor.
One big plus: The pasta isn't overcooked. The modest amount of plain tomato sauce on top lightly seasons rather than smothers the dish.
The traditional meatball, dense and mildly flavored, is included with certain entrees or as an extra-cost side ($1.10).
The extensive list of sub sandwiches includes a "super sub" ($8.45). It takes the traditional Italian ingredients (capocollo, salami, pepperoni, tomatoes, hot peppers, lettuce, onions, Italian dressing and cheese) and adds crumbled mild Italian sausage. The decent sub bun is strong enough to hold everything together.
The key is the time that the sub spends in the oven, which melts the cheese with the sausage and gives the bun a slightly crusty texture.
The short wine list has decent pours of Straccali Chianti ($5.75) and the always-reliable Ecco Domani pinot grigio ($5.75). The Da Vinci Chianti ($6.75) costs a little more than the Straccali but is worth it.
The Bottom Line
A big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store.
Pros
Lots of attentive waiting staff
Good range of classic and modern Italian cuisine
A great bar where you can watch the world go by
Cons
Too big for romance
This much service and style comes at a (big) price
Description
Address:San Carlo Manchester, 40-42 King Street West, Manchester M3 2WY
Tel: 0161 834 62256
Email
Open: 12noon – 11pm, daily, including Bank Holidays.
This is special occasion dining. Expect to spend £40 pp for lunch with wine.
Guide Review - San Carlo Restaurant, Manchester City Center
Manchester Italian restaurant that welcomes a stylish crowd
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.
Cocktail tables along the cliffs have full-on views of El Arco, making this the best place to toast to the sunset and another beautiful day in Los Cabos before moving to the candlelit dining room. Or merely remain outside, and enjoy dining alfresco. Italian Chef Emanuele Olivero has paid his dues in Los Cabos, with time at La Dolce in San José, at C in the Palmilla, and also at Pitahayas, before bringing his ideas to full fruition here at the Mona Lisa. The restaurant's four seasonal menus all depend on the ingredients that are in season at that particular time. How about ravioli filled with pumpkin, or La Paz blue crab covered with a cinnamon white sauce? Or seared halibut with crunchy polenta, sun-dried tomatoes, and asparagus tempura? Or go all out with the Grand Mona Lisa Tasting Menu, and try just about everything on their extensive menu. The restaurant is not really in the Corridor, but not really in town either; just a couple of miles up the hill—a short and relatively inexpensive taxi ride, well worth the trip for a sunset cocktail and dinner. Make sure you appreciate their Mona Lisa tile artwork both close-up and standing back a distance—an interesting optic illusion ensues.
The best Italian in the tri-state area. After traveling the country and eating at some of the premier Italian eateries, I would say I wasted my money at most of them in comparison to Angelo's.
The staff, quality of food, portions, ambiance, and price add up to a value that you just can't miss. The food is exceptionally good, and the wine list is one of the better in Evansville (Firefly tops it). The Chicken Parmigiana is phenomenal but everything is great.
They do claim to be authentic, but the boisterous outgoing cooks, Hamzeh and Carlos, are both from Jordan, the manager and owner, Mohammed and Angel, respectively are from Lebanon. And none have been professionally or classically trained.
In Evansville, you can not miss Angelo's. Charming and intimate, this Italian restaurant has the look and feel of a neighborhood eatery, thanks to dim lighting, red tablecloths, and exposed brick walls adorned with various interpretations of the "Mona Lisa." Pleasant servers make patrons feel like long-time regulars and don't mind suggesting time-tested favorites like eggplant parmigiana and linguine with clams. Diners willing to share should consider ordering a wood-fired Neapolitan pizza.
One of America’s most successful casual dinner house chains, Olive Garden Italian Restaurants, continues to pursue an aggressive expansion strategy. One of its more recently opened locations, on Riverdale Street in West Springfield across from Morgan Road, is currently celebrating a first anniversary.
        This new-style Olive Garden features an updated, Tuscan-inspired decor. Several different dining spaces offer a variety of seating options, while a small bar near the entrance offers itself as a cozy retreat while waiting for a table to open up.
        
Recently updated for the fall season, the menu at Olive Garden features classic recipes such as Five Cheese Ziti al Forno ($12.25), Fettuccine Alfredo ($12.50), and Chicken Parmigiana ($14.25).
        
Chianti Braised Short Ribs ($16.75) and Steak Gorgonzola-Alfredo ($15.95) are typical of the beef offerings, while the “Pollo” section of the agenda describes choices like Venetian Apricot Chicken ($14.35) and Chicken Scampi ($15.50).
        
From among the seafood possibilities Olive Garden patrons can choose Grilled Shrimp Caprese ($16.95), Herb-Grilled Salmon ($17.75), or Seafood Portofino ($16.25).
        
Antipasti options at Olive Garden range from Bruschetta ($6.65) and Caprese Flatbread ($6.95) to Smoked Mozzarella Fonduta ($7.65), a newly added hot cheese dip.
        We opted to start our meal by sharing an order of Lasagna Fritta ($8.75), another menu newbie. Obviously inspired by fried ravioli, the dish is built by arranging crumb-crusted lasagna noodles atop a pool of alfredo sauce.
        Garnished with a spicy-sweet, intensely tomato-flavored marinara, the ruffled noodles have a pleasant, crunchy texture and a likeable, parmesan-cheese enriched flavor.
        Sicilian Scampi ($10.75), our second starter selection, was a seafood-based riff on bruschetta. Shrimp bathed in a glossy garlic glaze topped slices of toasted bread; diced tomato, black olive, and green onion added flavor and visual interest.
        Also new, Parmesan Crusted Bistecca ($16.95) pairs up cheese-enriched breadcrumbs with sirloin steak. Interesting idea, we decided, but the robust crust tends to overwhelm the steak’s somewhat more subtle goodness.
        Lasagna Rollata al Forno ($13.25) is cheese lasagna recast as a trio of noodle spools. Arranged on a puddle of five-cheese marinara, the rollata were an enjoyable and somewhat sophisticated rework.
        Garlic-Herb Chicken con Broccoli ($13.95) featured a pair of playing-card-sized chicken breast filets arranged over al dente orecchiette. The pasta-chicken combination, with its broccoli floret garnish and garlic-cream glaze, was simple and satisfying.
        Our reaction to Shrimp & Crab Tortelli Romana ($17.25) was much the same. The shrimp-garnished combination of seafood ravioli and a creamy tomato sauce was agreeable enough though not something we’d be likely to order again.
        Though Olive Garden prides itself on making most items from scratch, we couldn’t help but notice that most everything we ordered seemed dominated by the same three flavor signatures — onion, garlic, and salt.
        
Entrees at Olive Garden still come with two hallmark components — hot-from-the-oven breadsticks and a “family-style” bowl of garden salad.
        
Fully licensed, Olive Garden aggressively promotes the enjoyment of wines from its Italian-inspired list. Specialty cocktails like Limoncello Lemonade ($6.50) and Peach Bellinis ($6.35) are also available, as is a variety of domestic and imported beers.
        
Dessert, we discovered, can be the best part of the meal at Olive Garden. Current offerings include Tiramisu ($5.95), Lemon Cream Cake ($6.25), and Zeppoli ($5.95), the latter small Italian doughnut served with chocolate sauce.
        A wedge of Triple Chocolate Strata ($6.50) met with our unqualified approval, as did a wedge of Pumpkin Cheesecake ($6.75).
        Piccoli Colcini (little dessert treats) are a new feature at Olive Garden. Three-bite dessert “shooters,” each incorporates a unique combination of cake, mousse, pastry creams, and berries. Available at $2.65 each or three for $6.75, they’re a great alternative to a full-sized, calorie-laden finale.
        At lunch Olive Garden serves midday-sized portions of various dinner entrees as well as a few lunchtime-only selections. A create-your-own pizza option is also available.
        
        Name: Olive Garden Italian Restaurant
        Address: 919 Riverdale St., West Springfield
        Telephone: (413) 750-5390
        Hours: Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.; and Friday and Saturday 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
        Entree prices: $10.95 - $19.95
        Credit cards: American Express, Discover, MasterCard, Visa
        Handicapped access: Accessible, with rest rooms equipped for wheelchairs
        Reservations: Groups of ten or more, Sunday through Thursday only


You wouldn't suspect it from the outside, but the front of this apparently small and cosy little Italian opens out into a cavernous main dining area, no doubt intended to cater to the hordes flocking to the Playhouse Theatre opposite. Unexceptional pasta, soggy pizza. Grim looking Italian. Convenient for a quick pizza before or after visiting one of the cinemas in the area, but has little else to recommend it. Busy italian which avoids feeling too crowded on account of being a rambling series of interconnected rooms occupying most of a block besides Leith Walk. This made it a good choice for the office party season, as the big groups have their own spaces. Pasta and pizzas are good, the monstrous seafood platter being especially impressive. However we were slightly annoyed by the lack of the advertised chillis on a Pizza Diablo, for which we were given two different explanations ("we've run out" and "we find most people don't like chillis") by two different people. While this isn't in the same league as another establishment's attempt to serve us an anchovy-free Salad Nicoise, it is irritating when places don't tell you about such changes and give you a chance to pick something else. There is now also a branch of Vittoria on George IV Bridge too, but we haven't tried it. A real Italian restaurant, and if you want a pizza look elsewhere. Think pasta or an antipasti salad for starters (or, if you're really going for the full-on experience, both) followed by a substantial fish or meat dish and tiramisu for afters. Unfortunately the food just seemed to be missing a certain something and, while perfectly acceptable, simply wasn't very memorable. On Sunday lunchtime at least this is another busy and buzzing New Town place in the Hendersons/Urban Angel area. Unusually for an Italian (in our experience) the pasta surpassed the pizza, the pizza being disappointingly soggy while the pasta (or more specifically its blue-cheese based sauce) was absolutely delicious. Service was excellent, apparently nothing being too much trouble for the waiters. The ventilation seems insufficient though; while the occasional pillars of flame from the tiny cooking area are entertaining, they do seem to contribute to making the place rather smoky. If you've ever been up Arthur's Seat and looked south to a golf course and a distinctive circular building (once stables, now used for functions), you'll have also been looking at Prestonfield House, recently refurbished as a hotel with a fantastic restaurant. Use this knowledge to reassure yourself that you're not headed in the wrong direction as you approach past the endless fifties bungalows lining Priestfield Road: eventually you'll reach the driveway to a grand floodlit building, and your goal, the dimly lit dining room glittering with candles. You are now in food paradise. The menu is extensive; there's fish, fowl, venison, beef and lamb dishes, often multiple instances of each. Everything we tried was faultless, including the absolutely delicious puddings. The courses arrive at a relaxed pace, and after a couple of hours of indulgence you can retire, satiated, to a more comfortable situation in an armchair or sofa by the fires in one of the sitting rooms upstairs. Warning: Expect to spend on the order of fifty quid per head on an evening out here. The choice for vegetarians is quite limited. Considering the formidable (or perhaps just overhyped) reputation this place seems to have established, we were surprised how just pleasantly low key and informal it is. We were in the vaulted stone-and-wood-panel room adjacent to the Royal Mile which, by candlelight, is a superb setting. There's another dining area further back in the building which we only glanced into which seemed more open and less gothic. The food is good honest un-mucked-about-with Best-of-Scotland stuff, and somehow a simple meal of oysters, a big chunk of beef and the multi-pudding selection went on for hours. Bliss. Warning: As with it's sister restaurant Rhubarb, this place can inflict serious damage on your bank account. But a "Witchery Experience" gift voucher does make a very nice present for special people. Located in the same building as the Traverse Theatre, the very modern, and very brown, Atrium seems to occupy a somewhat temporary space, as if on the verge of relocating to a conference centre or airport lounge. Tables (well spaced) are either chunky wood, or circular rust-coloured metal affairs looking like they might once have been industrial cable reels. There seems to be an abundance of efficent, unobtrusive staff. As to the food; well it's serious best-of-the-best stuff, exquisitely presented and absolutely perfect. Portion sizes were a bit disappointing (don't wait around for the vegetables to arrive with your main) and it was all over a bit too quickly, but that might be down to us being on the "dine around" offer. Highlight of the meal for us was definitely the puddings (a lemon polenta cake, and the best panacotta ever), although the fantastically soft lamb main wasn't bad either. Atrium has a reputation as one of Edinburgh's premier restaurants, and as you'd expect is priced accordingly (check the website). Absurdly expensive posh nosh. Fortunately there are occasionally special offers courtesy of groupon so keep a lookout there. The food is surely Michelin-star quality, but without the fussy pretentiousness or cringingly obsequious service; indeed there is a positively quirky, individualistic feel about the place. The setting is a small intimate dining room with a handful of tables (quite a contrast to the cavernous adjacent Whisky Room bar) and the atmosphere is relaxed enough that it doesn't seem at all out of order to strike up some conversation with the other tables. Get genial host Silvio (who clearly has a loyal following of regulars) talking about what you're eating and you could be treated to a passionate commentary on, say, balsamic vinegar selection or the challenges encountered sourcing your bottle of wine. A meal here should probably be on any Edinburgh foodies hit list; it's certainly one of Edinburgh's more "interesting eats". Cosy, lively, friendly and most importantly incredibly delicious. The menu is quite fish intensive, and there are absolutely fantastic puddings too. Quite pricey but worth every penny for a memorable night out. This Kurdish and Middle-Eastern restaurant used to be by far the best cheap eat in the Tollcross area and was largely resonsible for the review-rate on this page declining as we kept going back there. It's now moved into significantly larger premises up near the castle, where it desrvedly has no shortage of customers (booking highly advisable). The main courses are the main attraction; if you're hungry look no further than the "original tashreeb"; a casserole pot of lamb and vegetables all sitting on top of a naan into which the juices have soaked. If that doesn't appeal try the delicious skewers of lamb or chicken from the barbeque. Note that alcohol does not appear on the drinks menu, which has probably the largest assortment of non- and de-alcoholized wine and beers you'll ever see. (At it's former location, Hanam's used to be a BYO. It's not so clear whether it is or not now). The Italian deli Valvona & Crolla is a great Edinburgh tradition. The caf seems less exciting than when it first opened - we feel it is less consistent and perhaps other places have caught up too. See its listing under Favourite Food Shops. Just by Harvey Nichols, V&C's town centre restaurant and cafe has served us some good meals, but we do get the feeling too that somebody needs to be keeping more of an eye on standards. The food in the restaurant is not necessarily complicated, but well-executed Italian dishes made simply from really good ingredients. Not cheap, but very good. The wine list is excellent, with relatively reasonable mark-ups so one can drink pretty well too. There is a good range by the glass too, with open bottles preserved by a high-tech inert gas system. The cafe on the ground floor is good for a quick snack and a glass of wine or just a coffee. Italian Cafe serving a range of mainly simple dishes (pizzas, etc) and a few hot dishes of the day. We have heard the occasional moan from friends but when we have gone we have had usually had a good meal. A dish of grilled butterflied Langoustines on our last visit was delicious. Very serious, rather expensive, but very high-quality Italian food. There is a cafe area too with less ambitious food at more reasonable prices. Thisis another place we have not visited for a while and so are not sure how it is doing these days. Victor and Carina of Centotre now have a Cafe in Stockbridge. The food can be pretty good, but the quality is a bit mixed. Beware of Italian restaurants in Edinburgh; it is mostly overcooked, supermarket pasta with regulation Brit-Ital sauces. One that stood out a bit from the crowd was Librizzis but we haven't been there for a good while. Beyond this, Hanover Street has a mass of pizza and pasta joints serving the usual cliches to about the usual, poor standard. It certainly wasn't the local scenery that drew Peasant's John LaFemina to this restaurant locationa gutted Lower East Side storefront across from a cheer-free housing project where round-the-clock hanging out approaches the level of performance art. Unless you have a thing for dinner theater, you'll be grateful pizz has no windows. And once inside, you'll be in no rush to leave its rustic and ingratiating hearthside (which has been pleasantly enhanced since its opening), for not only do you instantly warm to a room built round an imposing, cycloramic brick oven (in which the temperature rises to nearly 900 degrees), but the aromas wafting from LaFemina's homey and heartfelt dishes like wild-boar lasagne, boccie-ready meatballs with ricotta, and apple crumble impart their own seductive heat. Reemerging onto Eldridge Street feels like being cast out of Eden, but enough of the enchantment will lingereven after you've schlepped to Allen Street to find a cabthat you're likely to plan a quick return. Before New York was a town with a panino in every presser, there was ino, the first and still the best of all the tiny Italian sandwich bars that have spread like El Bulli foam in recent years. The owners have that whole Italian between-meals-snacking aesthetic down to a tee. Their panini, tramezzini, and bruschette are little masterpieces of bold flavor and superb texture, and the tiny room is a lovely place to linger over a carafe or bottle of wine provided youre able to commandeer a seat Excellent service, helpful, friendly and very child friendly! Excellent food. Would definately recommend it. I hope to go back when I next visit York to try the risotto! Nell McAndrew ~ 3rd Aug 10 Fantastic food, The Best Italian in York. Jason ~ 16th Apr 09 We stumbled upon this little gem on Saturday night, the atmosphere was buzzing the service was excellent and the food was outstanding, we shall return next time we are in york. Sawreystores ~ added Nov 08 Friendly atmosphere and the fish dishes were excellent. We did not pay the 10% additional surcharge, but did leave a tip. added May 08 We visited on a very busy Saturday night and both the service and food were excellent, will definitely visit again. added June 2008 Food was great but as a group of 18 we were sat at 3 different tables and served at different times so one table was ready to leave the 3rd was just starting mains and no apology/discount was given very upsetting as a special occasion will never give my custom there again. I have been visiting this restaurant since my daughter was a baby (now nearly 15). The staff are lovely and friendly and very family orientated and bend over backwards to accommodate you. The food is delicious and I just love the ambience of the surroundings. My favourite Italian restaurant. Anna from York ~ 10th Aug 10 22 women on Saturday 19/6/10 - very warm welcome, excellent service and excellent food. Unhurried but efficient. Very big thumbs up from the whole group. Would definitely go again. Craftworkers ~ 20th Jun 10 Fantastic place to eat. Great atmosphere and equally great food. They served the best tiramisu I've ever eaten! The prices are reasonable too, it has a very relaxed feel that adds to the experience. Of course, it was helped by the singing chef! - 5 Stars. Mia ~ 7th Aug 09 Visited York last weekend, and came upon La Piazza by accident whilst looking for somewhere else. The food was excellent, as was the atmosphere. Wish it was closer to where I live. skopadiddle ~ added Oct 08 This is a proper Italian eaterie with ever so pleasant and attentive staff. Clearly popular with residents so it must be good. goldflash650 ~ added Sept 08 Visited la piazza on Saturday night on a friend recommendation and was not disappointed. Starters were enormous and everything tasted wonderful. prices reasonable and service good. booking a must. July 08 We had a beautiful meal here and the service was good, could of done with a few more king prawns with the starter and I'd highly recommend the fillet steak and peppercorn, definitely go again on our next visit. Jan 2008 / 5 Stars I used to eat at La Piazza all the time, the calzone was great. They sell authentic pizzas and the interior is really nice too. The floors are a little wonky upstairs! or had I just drank too much? Nearly every review you find of San Carlo praises it as among the best Italians in the city. We couldnt agree more. The ingredients they source are both fresh and authentic, and they are put to good effect in a menu that balances the traditional and the innovative. However, the real reason were so fond of San Carlo is their fish. Manchester is, frankly, dismal when it comes to fish. There isnt one consistently good fish restaurant in town these days; Manchester restaurants seem to have trouble turning out high quality fish dishes on a regular basis. But somehow San Carlo manages to pull off excellent fish choices again and again, from linguine served with clams and giant prawns to the board offering the best fish on the market today. Judging by the business San Carlo attracts, the restaurant is already a firm favourite in Manchester. It tends to fill up every night, which is great if you love people watching and pretending youre in New York. Bear in mind though that with high demand comes uber-fast service, so this might not be the place to go if you want to stretch out your meal over a leisurely three or four hours. A true Italian restaurant that caters for the whole family to dine in an authentic atmosphere. A family business which has been established 32 years. The result is an enjoyment for everyone. Parties and celebrations are thoroughly recommended. Seating up to 1 Just off busy and bustling Piccadilly, the MC Caf Bar, located on the ground floor of ABode Manchester, is the place to drop in to, from breakfast until late evening. Michael Caines' philosophy is that great food should be accessible to everyone and this inclusive attitude means that food here is at once delicious, fast and fun. You can enjoy simply superb coffee or teas together with home baked pastries and ptisseries; light bites such as sandwiches, paninis and salads; Greek, Spanish or Italian platters to share; delicious pasta and pizza hot from the oven; or full three-course meals including fresh fish, steaks, Goosnargh duck and much more. There is always good selection of wines by the glass or bottle; local and imported beers; and freshly made smoothies, juices and bottled waters. And as the evening draws out, simply slide over to the adjoining BarMC, our chilled, late night lounge bar... Down in the cobbled streets of Castlefield next to Dukes 92 lies Alberts Shed. Bizarre names aside for what is a fairly upmarket restaurant, a lot of fuss has been made over this place so we had great expectations. The layout is modern, polished and the staff were very friendly. We ordered the Spanish Torres white wine which was a cracker and not something you find on that many menus so bonus points there. The food however was disappointing. Both the bruschetta and scallop starters were adequate, just, but the former suffered from being bland. We both opted for the steak mains with my partners fillet with peppercorn sauce perfectly okay but my sirloin cut with wild mushroom, baby onion and red wine jus was a real let down. The beef was a prime cut no bother there but the sauce was highly disappointing and almost tasted like it came from a bottle. Deserts  sticky toffee pudding and chocolate pot  were again decent but not great and overall for a place with a big reputation and a mid-to-top-end price range we felt a bit let down. As weve only been once, wed give Alberts Shed a second chance. When one of the country's most respected and leading critics says that a restaurant in this group is 'the best Italian Restaurant outside London' it is time to take them seriously. Britain's love affair with Italian food is a cause clbre of long standing and shows no signs of waning, so it is always welcome news when somewhere like San Carlo sets out to reach for the skies. Located in the heart of Manchester, San Carlo is well suited to catch both day and night time business, and the menu reflects this. There are 147 different dishes, plus blackboard specials, offering snacks, meals, celebrations, all in true Italian style, dishes that bring Italy into the very centre of life in the city. How do I begin to describe the lavish, but quirky opulence of The Brunello Restaurant at The Baglioni Hotel? Well, take a pinch Gothic and a twist of fantasy and youre getting there! The Dining-room is like a spacious and fancy stage set: beautiful black Murano chandeliers, high backed gold comfy armchairs, and heavy draped curtains that look like their made from Draculas very best cape. Within the last few months a new chef, Andrea Vercelli, (ex Harrys Bar and Rosmarino), has simplified the menu of comforting Italian classics whilst focusing on keeping prices affordable. The set lunchtime menu is particularly good value with plenty of choice. I began with a totally creamy and fresh tasting crab and avocado salad, artistically served on a beautiful rectangular plate with a choice of Italian artisan breads. My guest had a plate of baked aubergine with fresh tomato and cheese which he commented was very delicate on the palate and I could see was very well presented on the plate. My main course was a dish of baked sardines with char-grilled spring vegetables, which was simple in its execution but light and delicate in its flavours. Rib-eye steak came served imaginatively presented, cut as if into fingers, and was thoroughly enjoyed by my enthusiastic guest. He said it was perfectly cooked, full of flavour and came served with tasty chips and salad. Puddings included Millefeuille with vanilla custard cream and wild berries and a classic Tiramisu. There is a vast selection of wines to chose from at all prices. We stuck with the Italian theme, choosing a highly flinty and quaffable Cantina Terlano Pinot Grigio D.O.C., the sort of wine one could imbibe all afternoon given its easy drinking. Somewhere as atmospheric as The Brunello is a sure-fire romantic dinner destination. A place to really dress up for the occasion and savour the memory afterwards. The Thirteenth Note is known first and foremost as one of Glasgows premier live music venues. As such the bar has a grungy vibe about it and it is not unusual to find a musician or two hanging out in the afternoon preparing for an evening gig. The A Room in Leith 1c Dock Place, Edinburgh, EH6 6LU With a name like 'A Room In  ' you've got a fair idea of what to expect. There are plenty of other clues: the wine list is 'The Bevvy List'; the food in the homely bar is served in large mugs; the jaunty mural in the main dining room owes more to DC A Room in the Town 18 Howe Street, Edinburgh, EH3 6TG A colourful mural along the back wall reflects this New Town restaurants own buzzing atmosphere. Like its sister establishments in Leith and the West End, a variety of locally sourced menus are on offer, including a set lunch, an attractive party menu The Abbey 65 South Clerk Street, Edinburgh, EH8 9PP The Abbotsford 3 Rose Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2PR Never the same ale twice the Abbotsford boasts, priding itself on its stock of UK-wide real ales, featuring five ever-changing guest drafts. Theres a more formal dining room upstairs (Above Abbotsford, see Scottish section), while downstairs the Above Abbotsford 3 Rose Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2PR With its ornate ceiling and island bar the restaurant room located above the Abbotsford pub, part of the same listed building, has the attributes to make an attractive dining space. Excessively bright lighting, however, doesnt show the place at its Absolute Thai 22 Valleyfield Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9LR Tucked up along the side entrance to Bennetts Bar, one minute from the foyer to the Kings or the Cameo, Absolute Thai is a low-key answer to hearty Thai food cravings. Granted the atmosphere you experience is more likely to be based on the charms of Abstract 20 Ness Bank, Inverness, IV2 4SF Famous for its lively encounter with Gordon Ramsay a few years back, Abstract brings sophisticated French cuisine to Inverness with features including an eight course tasting menu and a chef's table. Acanthus 1032 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G3 8LX Until early in 2008 Acanthus was part flower shop, part caf. But it is now under different ownership and the blooms have gone, allowing the new management to expand the caf's once restricted seating area. Situated on a busy stretch of Argyle Street Ad Lib 111 Hope Street, Glasgow, G2 6LL Suggesting that American cuisine isn't deserving of all the stick it gets, the Baby Grand Group-owned Ad Lib chain has three outlets in Glasgow, all of which look to do a healthy trade. The West End branch, at the foot of Byres Road, has ceiling-high The Adam Room The Tontine Hotel, High Street, Peebles, EH45 8AJ Occupying a set of elegant Georgian assembly rooms, The Adam Room is a leisurely spot for drinks and dining within the prosperous confines of the family-run Tontine Hotel in Peebles. Period features, including a minstrels' gallery and working Adam The Admiral 72a Waterloo Street, Glasgow, G2 7DA The Admiral bar is a stalwart on the Glasgow live music scene with its downstairs room, the Hold, regularly playing host to upcoming UK bands. Billy Connolly even played here in the 70s, and Gossips Beth Ditto was a more recent celebrity performer. It The Advocate 7 Hunter Square, Edinburgh, EH1 1QW Agacan 113 Perth Road, Dundee, DD2 4LG Snuggled on Perth Road in the West End, Agacan is named after its flamboyant owner, and the idiosyncratic wee place is rammed with the mans oddball artworks, the open kitchen acting as a stage for him to perform on most nights as well. The food is Agenda 15 Millbrae Road, Southside, Glasgow, G42 9UA Sitting proudly atop a Southside hill, Agenda is housed in an impressive art deco building frequented by thirsty locals and architecture students on a mission. Tucked behind the main bar in a separate room, the restaurant has subdued lighting and Agenda 92/98 Corstorphine Road, Edinburgh, EH12 8AT Glass-fronted and set back from St John's Road on the main Corstorphine drag, Agenda is a bar, restaurant and hotel. In the comfy bar area, which contains scattered leather sofas, you'll find a younger crowd drinking and listening to the latest tunes. Agua Apex City Hotel, 61 Grassmarket, Edinburgh, EH1 2JF A hotel restaurant in the heart of tourist Edinburgh could be forgiven for taking the easy option, pleasing the masses with international comfort food. Thankfully the smaller of the Apex hotels in the scenic Grassmarket has pushed the boat out with a Aikmans Caf/Bistro 24 St Andrews Street, Glasgow, G1 5PD Opened in January 2008, Aikmans is in a quiet street off the Saltmarket. Its within easy walking distance of Argyle Street, Glasgow Green and the Merchant City but provides a relaxing location due to the lack of traffic, plentiful parking and view of Airds Hotel & Restaurant Port Appin, PA38 4DF This assured, upmarket establishment changes its menu daily and occasionally offers a seven-course Gourmet Menu accompanied by wines to suit. Al Dente 139 Easter Road, Edinburgh, EH7 5QA Secreted away on one of the quieter stretches of Easter Road is a sparkling jewel of Italian dining  Al Dente is quite simply glorious. The walls are covered with pictures of Italian movie stars and picturesque vistas and these evocative images, along Alba 483 Great Western Road, G12 8HL L'Alba D'Oro 57 Henderson Row, Edinburgh, EH3 5DH A chippy that offers prawns with garlic and ginger  choice of single or supper, of course  alongside the traditional favourites has got to be something a bit different. L'Alba D'Oro (the name means 'dawn of gold') is a long-established leader in The Albanach 197 High Street, Royal Mile, Old Town, Edinburgh, EH11PE Right on the Royal Mile, the Albanach tempts tourists with a safe Scottish menu. Its bar, stocking 103 whiskies, leads to a wood and stone dining area out back. One may or may not appreciate the 'modern tartan' walls adorned with patriotic statements The Albannach Baddidarroch, Lochinver, IV27 4LP A dark wood dining room in the hotel is the backdrop for a set five course menu described as a showcase for all things local, free range and wild. Twenty years under the same ownership, the Albannach has been recognised with a Michelin star. Alchemy Apex City Quay Hotel, 1 West Victoria Dock Road, Dundee, DD1 3JP Two AA Rosettes and a stunning prospect over the waterfront make Alchemy a treasure of the Dundee dining scene. Set within the handsome Apex City Quay Hotel, this smart double-height restaurant has a cool, chatty ambience which is softened by the A colourful mural along the back wall reflects this New Town restaurants own buzzing atmosphere. Like its sister establishments in Leith and the West End, a variety of locally sourced menus are on offer, including a set lunch, an attractive party menu and the evening  la carte. The food is well presented in deep bowls with attractive garnishes. For starters, thin cuts of tuna carpaccio are enlivened by a zingy black-pepper crust and a punchy cucumber, chilli and lime dressing. A sultry dark cherry and balsamic chutney slides down slices of roast Gressingham duck breast and dauphinoise potatoes. Warm and fluffy orange sponge hides under velvety cointreau custard, and the vanilla cheesecake with blueberry compote is a crowd favourite. The wine list features a tangy Baron D'Arignac Blanc as the house white. Front of house staff sweep up and down the rectangular room, cheerily looking after the twin rows of tables. High point: Lovely food and ambience Low point: Remember to book at weekends Reviews of A Room in the Town 4. RudiRoo, Edinburgh  3 May 2010, 5:53pmReport From the team Christmas night out, to the Sunday lunch with the parents, this place has been consistently great. If you can find better value for money in Edinburgh, I'd be very surprised. 3. B-Boy, Edinburgh  29 January 2010, 4:32pmReport Couldn't disagree more with the first post. Never had a problem with the service and the food is beautifully cooked - far better than any number of more expensive restaurants in Edinburgh. Highly recommended. 2. Pip, Edinburgh  29 November 2008, 4:29pmReport Was a bit nervous after reading of the bad experience above, but it was excellent. The staff were more than polite, they were warm and welcoming. The food was exactly what we wanted on a cool autumn evening. I had a delightful mushroom and sage soup followed by haggis, neeps and tatties- delicious. Very yummy, very local and sure to become a regular haunt. 1. 6.30 may be good for you but not for our chef, Edinburgh  28 August 2008, 7:22pmReport Don't bother trying with this one. The staff who answer the telephone really can't be bothered giving you a table at 6.30 that they'll need back by 8.00 and it's possible that on the night the chef just can't be bothered cooking three courses for you. I'd heard the staff were off-hand but this takes the biscuit. I'm Set in the heart of Glasgow City Centre's shopping and business district, this fabulously funky New York style bistro serves a mix of traditional home cooking with a modern approach to some classic dishes. Aiming to serve our customers all day we are... Edit 2 78 St Vincent Average Rating: 3.20 of 5.00 Based on 1 Review Details + Ratings / Submit Review Description: 78 is an established award winning city centre restaurant. Its elegant warm atmosphere makes it the kind of place you don't want to leave, made even harder by the comfortable, secluded lounge area. Keeping it simple is the motto when it comes to the... Edit 3 Amber Regent Not yet reviewed Details + Ratings / Submit Review Description: The Amber Regent is a long established restaurant, situated in a convenient City Centre location. The restaurant boasts plush dcor and elegant surroundings which are complimented by a range of oil paintings of Chinese scenes by a Glasgow Artist,... Edit 4 Aurora Not yet reviewed Details + Ratings / Submit Review Description: Aurora's menu has been created with quality ingredients and sumptuous flavours. Inspired by the intimate, warm atmosphere our dishes are inviting, satisfying and stimulating relax and enjoy. The dcor, hot pink - most definitely the colour of love,... Edit 5 Baby Grand Not yet reviewed Details + Ratings / Submit Review Description: Baby Grand in Elmbank Gardens is a Glasgow institution. Specialising in char grilled food, it has an open plan kitchen that allows diners to watch the cooking. Invariably busy, the atmosphere is completely unique which makes it a great place to unwind... Edit 6 Barca Tapas Not yet reviewed Details + Ratings / Submit Review Description: Barca Tapas @ cava Bar, is a new experience and a truly unique offer of authentic tapas and cava cocktail bar. Inspired by Barcelona's famous tapas bars, Barca offers an ever changing menu of forty or more different tapas dishes to tempt every palate.... We ate here at the beginning of January and writing this review three weeks later I had to check the menu to remember what we had had to start; nothing memorable then! Italian Nachos were tasty although not very spicy and the portion was tiny. Tomato and Basil Bruschetta was nice enough but nothing special. The Scallop and Squid Ink Angel was just that, one scallop sliced thinly with a lump of overcooked angel hair pasta in the middle. At 13.90 this was a large portion, I wonder then if the 8.20 smaller portion had any scallop at all. Our waiter was quite arrogant and rude, when I asked for another plate as the one on the table was dirty, he brought a clean plate, held it right up to my face and asked if that was better! Thankfully he left half way through our meal and handed us over to a more pleasant colleague. 5 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by H (1 review) 03 February, 2011 - Doesn't like it Seriously disappointed. Bland starters, too salty main course which when left waiter not even interested to ask why not eaten. Will not be returning, too many better quality places to eat in Glasgow. And the palava of the vibratory thingy when table ready and leaving card in holder thingy just to get a drink before going to table seriously irritating, Worse than m&s cafe system. Was so looking forward to it all as well. 4 people recommend this review Recommend BETTER THAN A SOUP KITCHEN! by alexander221 (2 reviews) 14 January, 2011 - Doesn't like it If I had the choice of going to Jamies Italian or on the other hand going to a homless soup kitchen I would probably choose Jamie's. But when you have the choice of so many other restaurants in Glasgow's city centre, almost all of them better than Jamie's, and none of them trying to con you like Jamie's does, because lets face it this does not really belong to Jamie Oliver, the same as Sainsbury's doesn't. I would go elsewhere. 2 people recommend this review Recommend OK - Nothing Spectactular by Linda (3 reviews) 06 January, 2011 - Doesn't like it Jamie's Italian is actually OK. The first time we went we were shown to the bar (after queuing outside). As we had olives etc. at the bar we didn't take antipasti or starters when ordering. In hindsight this was a mistake as during a subsequent lunchtime visit to the restaurant I've had the meat antipasti plank which is really very good. The daily special main course was sold out so had a fairly average main pasta main course. Desert OK. It is a reasonably priced Italian restaurant with a good lunch/ daytime atmosphere. I wouldn't bother going for an evening meal again as the queuing outside is tedious and the whole being shown to the bar breaks up the conversation and flow of the evening. We would have eaten and drunk far more over the course of the evening if we been been shown to a table in a reasonable time. 2 people recommend this review Recommend disappointing by pauline-pollock (1 review) 05 January, 2011 waited in the downstairs bar - (without a seat) for 45mins, for a table, when table was eventually ready we were informed that we could only have the table for an hour and a half, we agreed as we were anxious to try this restaurant after all the hype. Very disappointed with food, it was just ok, nothing to write home about. Don't think I would bother to go again - we felt like we were on a great conveyor belt no personal touch. Would not advise anyone to go. 3 people recommend this review Recommend Avoid Jamies at Glasgow by Carolyn MacInnes (1 review) 28 February, 2011 Truly awful. Overcrowded. Over-priced. The food was luke warm and bland, despite the fancy descrition. Very poor vegetarian selection and the waitress told us that some of the vegetable dishes were cooked in animal fat!!! Would definitely not recommend this restaurant. Jamie Oliver - you should be ashamed. 2 people recommend this review Recommend Just okay. by Rossco (7 reviews) 22 February, 2011 - Doesn't like it If you go to Jamie's Italian expecting something extra special, you'll be disappointed. No atmosphere in this large modern interior, but noisy like a school cafeteria and the seating arrangement felt a little claustrophobic. The menu is an awkwardly large piece of card with some overly-imaginative dish descriptions. Vegetarian choice was poor and not indicated on the menu. My pasta dish tasted good, but didn't beat similar dishes from some of the real Italian restaurants in the close vicinity to Jamie's. In all, it was just okay, but for the premium menu prices and a celebrity chef's reputation, I expected something a lot better. Saying that, a lot of investment has went in to the restaurant and it seemed to be busy enough during a regular lunch time, so it must have an attraction to some. 1 person recommends this review Recommend Jamie, stick to the school dinners, son... by UnderCeej (3 reviews) 24 December, 2010 - Doesn't like it In town doing last minute shopping for Christmas with my girlfriend and her brother, and we decided to get their parents a few quids worth of vouchers for Jamie's eatery... after getting them, we decided to stay for dinner... Seated downstairs, as seems the theme here, but thankfully only for 30mins.. during that time, I approached the bar to get some drinks. Nothing spectacular, just a Peroni for myself, a Miller for the gf's brother and a mineral water for She Who Must Be Obeyed. Imagine my dismay when finding out that they DON'T sell Peroni. For those who don't know, Peroni is one of the most well-known Italian beer IN ROME, let alone in an "Italian" restaurant in the middle of Glesgae! You can imagine my disappointment when the waiter then informs me that they don't sell Miller either! "Okay, what do you stock?" I ask hopefully... his answer?.. "[insert name of beer here] is what we do, it's smooth and kind of like Miller, but it's from somewhere in Italy..." (it was so uninspiring, I can't even remember the name of it!) Never mind, onto our table. Our small, cramped table, with red plastic seats, and when I sat down (I'm not exactly a robust person, but I'm not a twig either...) I nearly crushed the lady sitting behind me into her table! Next.. after a 15 minute wait.. starters of Bruschetta and Bread with Olive Oil and Balsamic for the table... Bruschetta was luke-warm with an actual pasting of cheese on it (seriously, it looked like half a tub of philadelphia on it) and a small petri dish of oil & vinegar to accompany a small box of 3 slices of bread and a breadstick in it. Come on, folks, I put more out for the birds in my garden. Next, my main of Carbonara. To quote a man who reviewed earlier, it wasn't that I'm not exciting or adventurous when it comes to a meal, it's that nothing else on the menu inspired me in the slightest! To say it was Al Dente is being GROSSLY generous. It was very bland, with pasta that kind of looked like thick soba noodles, but they were hollow... weirdest thing in the world. I mean, Carbonara in Rome isn't anything special to look at, and it's the nicest stuff in the world. Methinks someone is trying too hard. Finally, my dessert. Walnut tart. So filling that even now, 4 hours after the meal, I still feel it sitting in my stomach. Summed up in 4 words? Not good, Mr Oliver. And in keeping with the day job, I'll leave you with a pearl of wisdom I was repeating to myself as I left the restaurant, never to return... Must... try.... harder..... 4 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by Twecharbeach (1 review) 23 February, 2011 - Doesn't like it Disappointed. Chose the chicken and it had an awful stench and taste of anchovies! I doubled checked menu and there is NO mention of anchovies in the description! Said to manager who said it was a mistake!! The menu is wrong! poor show! 1 person recommends this review Recommend Good food decent value by Sarah (4 reviews) 28 February, 2011 - Likes it The food here is good & not overpriced but for Italian I don't think it's the best in Glasgow - I was with a large group so got to taste lots of different bits & everyone enjoyed their food but I know La Vita still came out trumps with a few of us. The puddings were easily the best part - outstanding. We would definitely go back but wouldn't wait for an hour to get a table. Recommend Poor value beef salad by luvmagrub (7 reviews) 21 February, 2011 Had lunch at Jamie's Italian. Not a lot of wheat free starter choices so I only ordered a main course - a leafy salad with slices of beef and beetroot. Don't know if I mis-interpreted the description on the menu or if it was my own high expectations that were at fault, but for 12.00 I expected the salad to be quite sumptuous with slices of warm cooked beef, like frying steak.... bit disappointed with my 6 (or 8?) wafer thin slices of cold Italian beef ham. Salad leaves were nice and fresh though. Recommend RIP OFF by Emmanuel (1 review) 06 December, 2010 - Doesn't like it With the queues of people waiting to ripped off in this traversity of an Italian Restaurant, I have just found out that Jamies does not contribute to the City of Glasgow's rates. In this climate of spending cuts and lost jobs, and increased community charges, it is pure greed that they are not paying their way as are all hte other businesses in this city. 13 people recommend this review Recommend 2nd chance by jambonnie (7 reviews) 25 February, 2011 first time around not so good willing to give it a 2nd chance review to follow Recommend mobile review by Yevv (4 reviews) 21 February, 2011 - Likes it Fresh, interesting, rustic as creative Italian food, beautifully presented. I'm not sure what so many people are givin bad reviews for but having eaten here several times I can say the food is delicious. Try the 3 varieties of bruscetta, the mezzo platter, any of the fresh pasta and undoubtedly the best pannacotta anywhere. Recommend Just Perfect by euain (1 review) 06 March, 2011 - Likes it Did any of the people on here who gave this place a bad review actually go to thr resturant they are slating. From the minute we arrived we were treated like royalty. Yes there was a bit of a queue, yes there was a bit of a wait down stairs in the bar. but once we were seated the service was extremally personal. We were brought to our table by a lovely waitress who was knoledgeable and friendly. The food was out of this world. It was fresh and plentiful. The bread was great and enough for two to nibble along to as we ate our starter. The Mains were just perfect. Spaghetti Bolognese and tha Tagliatelle with truffle. Wow. As for the price. We got one starter, a basket of gormet bread, two main courses, a portion of posh chips (Chips with parmesan and truffle oil) and a desert. This came to 36. Seriously 36 quid. I went with the intention of trying the place as a once off. Well I will be going back, and the sooner, the better. The resturant is beautiful. Its not a Shrine to Jamie Oliver, Aye you can buy some bits and peices, but they are certainly not in your face and its not being touted. I loved the entire experience. I would recomment this to anyone. 36 quid. I still cant get over it. Recommend LOVED IT!!! by Maurendownie (1 review) 02 March, 2011 Took mum to Jamies Italian yet last night and must say despite all the bad reviews, some of which I agree with some of the comments I really enjoyed it as did my mother. I had the fish baked in the bag and mum had the steak both of which were very nice. Both had the funky chips too - delicious. I thought the girl at the front of house could have been more welcoming however it didn't spoil our enjoyment. I have already recommended it to a few people and will definitely be back. PS Dont know why everyone saying stick to other things Jamie. He doesn't actually cook there does he? so cant really be blamed. I know it's really only trading on his name but hey I dont care I loved it!! Recommend mobile review by Mary ward (15 reviews) 22 August, 2010 Plastic food, plastic decor, over rated 9 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by John (1 review) 13 October, 2010 - Doesn't like it Not very good at all. Went in with my son this afternoon. When I complained my carbonara was cold I was told they couldn't heat it up too much because the eggs in it might scramble. Apart from being cold was utterly tasteless. Soggy pasta in a watery bland sauce with hardly a bit of ham. Forgot our side until I asked for it. By far the worst meal I've had in Glasgow for years. Not just average - very, very poor. Jamie wants to get off the tv and get in to the kitchen in his own place if he is going to trade off his name. 9 people recommend this review Recommend HOW RUDE!!!!!!!!! by monsieurcreosote (6 reviews) 20 July, 2010 - Doesn't like it We called to reserve a table for four on thursday 15th June. to be informed that THERE WAS NO NEED TO BOOK AND they would only accept a booking for tables over six or was it eight ,that we should just come along and they would accomodate us. WHAT THEY SHOULD HAVE SAID COME ALONG AND WE WILL ASK YOU TO STAND OUTSIDE ON THE STREET FOR ONE HOUR EVEN THOUGH THERE IS SPACE INSIDE . AS A REALLY COOL MARKETING PLOY ON OUR PART. What saddened and to be honest annoyed me further was the number of young couples and groups of girls that had made the effort and dressed for the occasion, only to be left outside in the Glasgow wind and rain . Unfortunately I cannot now and in the forseeable future, comment on the food. 29 people recommend this review Recommend WORST ITALIAN IN GLASGOW by brycie67 (1 review) 29 October, 2010 - Doesn't like it this is by far the worst italian restraunt i have been to in glasgow.. food was overpriced and not good. starters were bad,,, stuffed olives, antipasti plank, stuffed mozzarella. the olives and mozzerella didn't taste nice at all. the meats on the antipasti were great but only got four little pieces, the coleslaw that comes with it was tasteless. main courses were worse.. scallop pasta is a rip off- one scallop sliced into ten pieces and the pasta was tasteless... fish in a bag- i love seafood and order it regularly. this did not taste nice at all. prawn linguini- pasta wasnt cooked long enough al dente......... needed an al dentist after tryin to chew that.. mushroom pasta ravioli..... cant remember the real name but this was the best meal out of the lot nice pasta and sauce. ice cream is a rip off aswell, three scoops looked more like one cut into three. at 5 its shocking. chocolate and espresso tart was good, couldnt taste any espresso but it was nice.. i woud advise anyone thinking of trying this restraunt not to bother...it's only busy because of its name not the food. italian kitchen is 2 mins away with nicer food and not as expensive.... 8 / 9 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by Myke Hawke (3 reviews) 11 August, 2010 Took a posh bird here on a second date and was expecting good things and a chance to score major points. Had too wait in the bar area for an hour and a half. They didn't even sell Tennents which was a big disappointment. My bird was hoping to have Cheesy Garlic Bread, Ham & Pineapple Pizza & Neapolitan Ice Cream. Call yourself an Italian Restaurant? What was with the garlic and parsley on the chips? I just wanted some tomato sauce on the chips. Didn't even get a winch off the bird, worst restaurant ever! 29 people recommend this review Recommend Mixed Bag... by TheBrutalKremlin (1 review) 20 November, 2010 - Likes it First, the painfully bourgeois clientele of Glasgow need to grow up: the best thing that has happened here is a restaurant that doesn't bend to a small town mentality about 'bookings'. If the rest would follow suit, perhaps the street culture and general ambiance of Glasgow would improve beyond a bunch of yuppies running to and from their cars. I've been to Jamie's three times. The first: great. The second, skimpy portions. The third: the front of house was typical paid-by-the-hour, uninterested, sat me and my business partner and my partner, who were out for a birthday lunch, under the stairs in the cramped bar - although there were seats upstairs. The food is generally ok, but the portions are too small for the prcie points. All in all Glasgow can't seem to handle a cosmopolitan restaurant, and this particular restaurant location needs to up its game. I'm waiting to be a big fan. 4 / 7 people recommend this review Recommend great. by Andrew (22 reviews) 20 July, 2010 - Likes it After hearing mixed reviews about this place, I was rather apprehensive to check it out and see how it delivered. Me and the rest of the clan decided to give it a go last night and we were pleasantly overwhelmed. The service was good, the waiters very attentive and friendly and the overall atmosphere of the restaurant is very warming. We were told there would be a wait of about 45minutes for our table, we decided to go downstairs for drinks while we waited. However, the table was ready after only 20 minutes of waiting! Jamie's Italian has a system where they give waiting tables a buzzing black device to inform you when your table was ready. Handy! For our starters, We had the bread selection, meat board antipasti, rice and mozzarella balls to share. Each dish was full of flavour. For mains, we ordered two portions of Meatballs, which came with a really unusual pasta, but delicious nonetheless. I had one of the lamb lollipops, which was by far the best lamb i've ever eaten. You need to try this! Two portions of the garlic chips and one portion of polenta and rosemary hand-cut chips were also ordered - they are divine! The meals are averagely priced, but for what you get you will realise that it is worth it! I will definitely be returning! 6 / 8 people recommend this review Recommend very disappointing!! by nataliejohnston18 (1 review) 03 October, 2010 we waited 30 mns in the rain for a table but once in had another 2 hour 30mins wait at the bar. we were a large group and were told we couldnt book a table over the phone even though on the website it says you can book for groups over 8. we were told if we turnned up and booked we would have an hours wait. well was much longer!! there was no seats for us all at the bar during that long wait. after the long wait we were looking forward to our meal i ordered a lemonade and lime it tasted like water and lime there was no fizz and no fresh lime. i ordered grilled chicken which i couldnt eat it all as it was full fat!! my boyfriend ordered a burger which was burnt through anda skinny thing we expected it to be big and juicy and the best burger hed had. it was skinny and burnt through. as it has jamie olivers name on the door people have got high expectations. it was the worst dining experience we have had. i have never complained before. i would really recommend spending your money else where its really not worth a visit. you have to pay extra for the sides the mains come on their own. the only upside was the actual resteraunt was nice and original ideas when serving the meals, the manager was nice and did give us vouchers when we complained but unfortunatley even with the vouchers i doubt i would return. 7 / 8 people recommend this review Recommend Disappointing by Chris (1 review) 05 September, 2010 - Doesn't like it Over priced, badly descriped, uninspiring menu, served by inexperienced staff. Firstly, they don't take bookings. We were told we would have a 30 minute wait and should wait in the bar downstairs. Half of the downstairs area is set aside as restaurant tables, none of which were in use. We ordered our expensive soft drinks and waited. After only 15 minutes (note shorter wait times than quoted from other revievers - are they telling us longer wait times so we're pleasantly surprised when we're seated sooner...or more likely to buy a drink?!) our pager buzzed and we were met at the top of the stair by a girl with menus, who told us that a waiter would come take our order. This took another 15 minutes! The menu was totally uninspiring. with any normal menu its usually a tough chioce between two or three very nice sounding dishes, here it was a case of trying to pick one that sounded vaguely appetising. We ordered bruchetta each for starters, followed by the "fish of the day" and a special pork dish. The starters arrived very quickly and were nice enough, although we did not expect them to be cold and nearly 5 was very pricey for such a small and simple dish. The roast pork on the special board was tasty but required at least two side dishes to complete it as a meal. The fish dish was a real disapointment. What is basically descriped as fried fish of the day turned out to be a ramdon assorment of fish and sea food. The amount of small pieces all battered made for a very greasy un enjoyable meal. 16 is totally unjustifiable. This dish was not what was descriped, and of course needed a side of chips which did not turn up and required us to ask 3 different waiters before we finally got it. Overall it was not an enjoyable experience. The excess number of staff, none of which seemed to be trained properly, the over priced menu and general canteen atmosphere, all made for displeasurable evening. 4 people recommend this review Recommend What is the italian for SHOCKING by Irishgal (1 review) 31 August, 2010 - Doesn't like it Desperately disappointed. We went there on mon 31st Aug, 3 girls on a little lunch out in town. On arrival , we were told to wait in the bar downstairs and our table would be ready in 1/2 hour! However when we were in the bar , there was an abundance of empty tables! ( obviously wanting to get some cocktail money from us 1st). Now it just goes from bad to worse .......The staff were pathetically inexperienced, not a clue! From the 3 starters we ordered, they couldn't provide any! out of stock! Wait for it....It was NACHOs, STUFFED OLIVES and then on a third attempt at ordering BRUSCHETTA WITH CRAB, they had no crab!!!!!!!!! For Main Course The fish of the day was Rock turbit...but when ordered , they had none left! And for the Prawn linguine.......They served us spagetti. The restuarant was a joke and not a chance of us ever returning..........If you go , I hope you have a better experience than us , however looking at the previous reviews...Its consistently bad......Jamie I am gutted! 5 people recommend this review Recommend Healthy competition! by Deborah (2 reviews) 05 November, 2010 It's interesting how many people choose to complain on a faceless website, instead of addressing poor service or disappointing food with the staff or manager, face to face. I'm sure no business wants to be put on 'Trial by Urban Spoon' without being given the opportunity to rectify the situation first. I'm wondering how many negative comments have actually been generated by competing restaurants? 8 / 11 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by Gillian (1 review) 21 August, 2010 - Doesn't like it DIsappointing. Great atmosphere,clever quirks but it managed to serve up an inedible tapenade (foul) and very average pasta. Service friendly but our waiter inexperienced and the order was not read back and was incorrect. Expected far more, doubt we'll go back. After living in Italy I know my Italian and this was pretty poor, tricks over taste 6 people recommend this review Recommend Average Food, Bad Music, Abismal Service by Artemus Jones (1 review) 25 July, 2010 - Doesn't like it I must admit that I approached Jamie's Italian with a certain sense of expectation. I checked the menu online during the day at work, the decor of the restaurant is fantastic and the name above the door is one you can trust when it comes to food. I must be on to a winner...or so I thought. . Unlike some it seems, my issues with this place was not being made to wait outside in the elements for a table as we were seated immediately. However, this was the highlight of the meal. . Over-loud, middle of the road pop tunes, a dour faced maitre d' and an inept waiter tarnished what could have been a pleasant pre-cinema meal. The latter of which didn't seem to comprehend the neccesity of spoons for linguini & bucatini, water for the empty glasses on the table or the oil and vinegar that is supposed to come with the bread order. The music further didn't lend itself to the waiter's incomprehendible mumbling of the specials. . The Squid Ink linguini was ok, not spectacular, felt slightly cheated at 13.50 there appeared to only be one scallop which was sliced and scattered around the edge of the plate. The pasta wasn't mixed properly with the white wine sauce and clumped together in one big ball in the middle of the plate with the capers, chilli and sauce all underneath. The Bucatini Carbonara with "ribbons of courgette" was a disaster. The dish was congeled as the egg has slightly scrambled and the "Ribbons" of courgette were actually chopped chunks which didn't lend itself to the type of pasta used. Disappointing as when I cook this dish, I use the recipe from "Jamie at Home", which always comes out great. Why can't his staff replicate such a simple dish? . The Tiramisu was a tasty pudding but was put into a stoneware dish with all the finesse of a brickie and his trowel. . Put all of the above in a restaurant that is so obviously trying to turn round its tables as quick as possible and it leaves a very hollow experience. A second atempt with better service may make one forgive the inadequacies of the cuisine, however it may be some time before I find myeslf queuing for such a mediocre munch. If you're looking for good Italian food in the centre of Glasgow, La Vita and the Italian Kitchen best this big brand eatery with class and verve. 15 people recommend this review Recommend mobile review by BS (1 review) 24 July, 2010 Jamie's Fantastic Rip Off!!! If you want to see the best restaurant for rip off than go, wait in the que for 40 mins eventhough they have empty tables inside so that they can use you as a free marketing tool to stand outside and give a false signal to Glaswegians and than serve you a meal (carne) without anything else than a small amount of meat with no veg - potatoes - chips - nothing so that you buy couple of sides, etc! Nothing special, just OK but go to Di Maggios, La Vita, Sartis or Massimos where you get the same meal for half the price from a Glasgow restaurateurs who works hard, not Mr Oliver counting his money from London! Let's support Glasgow's own restaurants - not Celebrity Chefs Rip Off Restaurants which only lasts in Glasgow for couple of years so goodbye to Jamie soon!!! 9 people recommend this review Recommend So Disappointing by laura phillips (1 review) 30 July, 2010 Jamie Oliver is 5 celebrity by 02 

Restaurants liberate you from the task of preparing your own food, but it is better to have a peanut butter and jelly sandwich at home than bad food at a restaurant. Nothing makes you sicker than paying good money for bad food.
These are the most important criteria:
The restaurant must be clean
The restaurant must smell good
There must be plenty of customers
If the restaurant does not look clean, the kitchen is probably worse. Skip it. If you cannot smell the food cooking, they are going to serve you leftovers or something that is not fresh. Skip it. If there are no people sitting at the tables, the food is probably bad, the service is terrible, the restaurant is expensive, or there is some reason why the local residents avoid it. You should too.
Other factors in choosing a restaurant:
Price range - Good food should not break the bank. You should enjoy the food without having to regret the expense.
Variety - If you go with other people, the menu should offer a variety of dishes to satisfy the taste of all the guests.
Value - Some restaurants have servings that are so small that they do not satisfy your hunger. You probably will not go back to those places. Other restaurants give you so much food that you cannot possibly eat all your serving. Don't hesitate to ask for a carry out container for your leftovers if the food was good.
Parking - Before you can eat, you have to get there. Make sure that there is parking space for your car close by. If necessary, call the restaurant and ask where you can park and whether they validate parking. You may also want to know if they have valet parking.
Reservations - Don't forget to make reservations if they are required. Call ahead to find out, specially if you are planning to dine out during a holiday or a weekend when the restaurants are more crowded.
Special requests - Is the restaurant staff responsive to special requests? Find out if you can order low-salt dishes, no MSG, vegetarian, etc. This is important if you or one of your party has allergies or special dietary needs.
Sometimes, you can find a good restaurant if you just follow your nose. When I was attending a conference in Santa Cruz, California, some members of our group were walking by a downtown street when we got a whiff of a delicious aroma. It was close to supper time, and we decided to follow the scent to see where it would lead us. After a couple of blocks, we ended up in an alley where an exhaust fan was the source of the smell. We went around the corner to the front of the building, and found a bar that was having a "happy hour" featuring Mexican tacos with chopped grilled meat piled on freshly made corn tortillas complemented by a zesty salsa. It was a delicious and memorable experience. 
For me one of the joys of travelling is tasting the local food. Unfortunately this is not always as straight forward as it might seem. If it is your first time in a place where you do not know anyone and even worse, if you speak a different language then finding a good well priced restaurant can be more difficult than finding a three leaf clover. And you surely know how frustrating it is paying good money for bad food.
I had the most delicious chicken drumsticks in raspberry sauce one day that we were visiting Montmartre in Paris. Maybe we had too much to eat, too much wine, or it was just the beauty of the surroundings but we left without taking note of the restaurant's address. Nevertheless, I went back several times afterwards and never found it again. So, if you find YOUR place take care of it, you do not want to come back in two years to find that either you cannot find "your" restaurant or that the restaurant is still there but it has changed hands, so you will not find that delicious poulet a la framboise anymore. 
There are a few pointers to choosing a good restaurant:
The menu. Small European towns only have a couple of restaurants. Have a look at the menu displayed on the outside before going in. If it's a limited menu, the chances are that they probably do it well. But if there are a lot of menu items from different parts of the world, or even from other regions, watch out as they could all be mediocre, if not bad.
Cleanliness. If the restaurant looks clean, there is a good chance that the kitchens will be clean too.
The smell. If passing by from the outside you can scent the meat slowly cooking and the onions melting , then you should go into that restaurant. If you cannot smell the food cooking in a restaurant it either means that they have excellent ventilation or that they are going to serve you micro-waved food. 
Destiny and luck, picking a restaurant on a whim.
You might trust your first impressions and choose a restaurant that looks good and inspiring. In France, Italy and Spain do not rely on the exterior or decoration of the restaurant as they are not indicative. It is a big risk, you can have a pleasant surprise and find a jewel or it could be the worst meal ever.
From six days in Rome only once, more by luck than good judgement, did we find a Roman jewel in the most unexpected little street near the Trevi fountain. The place was absolutely tiny; instead of individual tables it had one line of three long tables. It was a family owned restaurant and we ate dishes that I had never heard off, each more delicious than the last, accompanied by a ruby red wine. We had the restaurant to ourselves, the food was delicious and the ambiance very familiar and friendly. It was our best meal in Rome. To top it off just before leaving, the Nona invited us to a glass of Limoncello specially brought to her by a Calabrian nephew. We tried to go back next day, but as we hadn't paid attention to the name of the restaurant or the street we never managed to find it again in that labyrinthine spaghetti of narrow streets.
Lesson to be learnt? If you find an exceptional restaurant make sure that you take the name and address. Most of them will even give you a card with directions to arrive if you ask. 
Warnings: Do not choose a restaurant this way if you have invited someone special or you are celebrating a special occasion.
Ask the locals.
Not only you can get information at the local tourist offices but the best advice comes from people that you meet in the streets. Ask the girl who sells the postcards, or the man who just sold you that silly t-shirt, where can you taste some good local food.
If you do not speak the local language, just have a good look. Wait until lunch time and see where all the shopkeepers are going for their lunch. In the big cities you will see where the office workers are heading to. If you are on the road, usually the best places to eat are those restaurants, just by the road, full of truck drivers. They are not very nice looking -the restaurants or the truck drivers- but usually the food is edible with big portions and good prices. The food might not leave a long lasting memory but at least you will enjoy a good filling meal.
Popularity
Choose a popular restaurant. Usually a popular restaurant means that the food served is good, although that is not a certainty. We have been fooled this way several times
a place is popular just because of its location -mainly in big cities near tourist areas-, or maybe it is the cheap prices, or the beautiful waitresses? Who knows! This is one of the least reliable ways of choosing a restaurant. Sometimes a place is just fashionable regardless; it might be the place to be seen, like most terrace restaurants in Puerto Banus, which are always full of customers but their culinary abilities might be way below standards. 
Gastronomic guides
In France and Spain generally you can trust the gastronomic guides. Even if you do not have a guide or the inclination to read one, you can look for restaurants that have the accredited "stars" or "epis" at the main entrance. Usually, this means that the place has been tried and tested successfully.
How to choose your cheese in a restaurant
Cheese, fromage, formaggio
Cheese, fromage in French, formaggio in Italiano, queso in Spanish; a single word that brings me to the doors of luxurious and sensuous pleasure with the memories of pungent sharp flavours slowly melting in...
Friends recommendations.
This is the most reliable way of choosing a place, but it is not infallible. You need to have similar taste to your friends otherwise you might be directed to a fish and chips shop.
In Spain once we were taken to a "very good restaurant" by friends, they only failed to tell us that the speciality of the place was snails! It was one of my longest meals, slowly soaking my bread in the snails' sauce -which was very tasty- to keep my mouth filled and avoid my friend giving me one of her snails fished out of the shell with a toothpick. Certainly not an experience for the faint hearted.
Criadillas de cordero en pan frito
A warning on ordering in a foreign country
When ordering in a foreign country always ask if you are not sure. Most of the time the waiter will be happy to explain to you what the dish is and what are the main ingredients. You do not want to go to Spain and ask for Criadillas de cordero en pan frito.... Well, maybe you do, after all they are very delicious, but you should know that you are asking for lamb's testicles on toast!
Village restaurants in Italy and France 
Bear in mind that in small towns in France and Italy there is not always a written menu. Usually these are small family owned restaurants where everybody in the village comes for lunch. The waiter just comes and asks you if you want to eat. If you say yes... the decision is taken for you; just sit back and wait with adventurous anticipation for your dishes to come, usually the deal includes starter, first dish and dessert plus wine, cheese and bread. So be sure you are hungry before you say yes.
At first I found this style of restaurant weird and intimidating, but experience has shown me that these are some of the best restaurants. They have no stars or fancy decorations but their food is seasonal, freshly picked from their own gardens, cheese made in the local farm and the wine done in the local cooperative. There is no a written menu because the menu of the day depends on the cook's mood, the maturity of the produce waiting to be picked, or in whether the fish was in mating mood or not -a fish in love is tastier, its flavour more delicate, so some cooks would refuse to cook a non-amorous fish! 
Table etiquette when travelling with children
Thankfully for most parents who travel with young children, in Spain and Italy no one seems to mind children howling through the meal, the Spanish and Italians just raise their voices accordingly to be heard over the little angel's voices.
In France, however, this is not the case. In France food is meant to be enjoyed and savoured slowly at each bite, so children are expected to sit at the table during the two hours meal, eat what is put in front of them -most of the time the same as adults- use correctly all their cutlery and glasses and even take part in the conversation. No howling, no screaming, no chicken nuggets and chips washed down with coca cola. 
How To Choose a Restaurant
The big event! The proposal....a business deal closer.....Mother's Day.....Spouse's Birthday....How do you pick a restaurant?  Well, the occasion itself will shape your choice even though most of the time you are not conscious of this. Food is one factor, but the environment and location are important too. And that is what makes the difference. When you take the time to choose, oftentimes you are rewarded with a great gastronomic experience built around the ambiance of the restaurant and the attitude of the staff serving you. Here are some things to consider:
Location/Amenities. Sometimes, when you want to have a great time and driving afterwards will pose a problem, find a place close by where you can easily walk or where it's easy to get a cab. Paying another fifty bucks to talk to Habib or Willy the driver just adds unnecessary expense. Of course, it is different when the location is the key factor, like on a lake, seaside, riverside or a spectacular view of a mountain or an architectural gem. Sometimes, you want to go to a place where you can eat outside without being sun-scorched. So you check for places where you need to discuss serious matters or go for restaurants that have private rooms for a small group with a good working table. Hotels are really good at this.
Cuisine/Chef. Of course, you will easily put out fifty dollars for a cab if the menu is the first priority of the event and you are going for taste bud titillation. You will even drive five hours or hop on a plane just to have dinner in a restaurant because the food is truly memorable and the word Michelin does not relate to your tires. If you can, check out the wine list first.  In some restaurants, the wine list consists of six highly priced bottles of very good but very pricy wines all from France. The Chef may have tried to match wines with menu and you need to weigh this up before you go. When the chef has a great reputation, it is worth checking out the place. At times, you just want to eat a particular cuisine and if that restaurant is the only one available of that style where you live, there is really not much choice. But often, there are two or three choices for a particular cuisine. Check out if their chef comes from the country where that cuisine is from. You are more likely to get the real thing and not the stylized version of it. If you are really into ethnic originals, find out where folks from the country of that cuisines origin eat. It may be the best.
Price/Value for money. When you are bringing your whole family or a big group, you would look for one that will give you value for your money. This does not mean being cheap but getting a good meal that you feel happy about paying. You are satisfied for what you get. For heaven's sake sort out who is paying or how to share the bill BEFORE you go into the restaurant. Nothing leaves the taste of ashes rather than food than the pulling at the bill by everyone at the table!
Service, service, service. Many times, this involves you too. When you find a restaurant you like, befriend the waiters and waitresses. Treat them warmly as you would treat your own friends and you will find that you will get great service again and again. Be helpful. Sometimes, they are so busy and you demand a hundred things. When you see them carrying many things to your table, arrange your table to give them space to put things down or just take some of the things that are hard for them to place on some sides of your table. These may be little things but when they see you helping them, they will go out of their way next time you come to make sure you are served properly. Over and beyond this, of course, are those few restaurants with impeccable "3 star service" no matter who you are. However, such restaurants are often remote and a bit formal....even intimidating. Build a good relationship with the staff and it becomes fun to be a regular.  
Hygiene/Ambience. If the occasion you are planning is serious, you may just want to check out the restaurant before you decide to book an evening there. Go and have a drink and check out the place.  Go use the washroom. This often gives you the standard of hygiene followed in the restaurant. Sometimes, the restaurant may be beautiful but the decor is not to your taste. It jars your senses. Go to a place where you enjoy the general atmosphere and it fits you and the occasion. Do they play music? How loudly? Check out the people who go to the restaurant. If you find it pleasant to be around these people as you eat your dinner, then go book a table. Maybe, a specific table away from the kitchen doors and not under the air conditioner.
Recommendation.  Word of mouth or reviews are important to consider. They give you an idea of what the restaurant is like. Take this from people who know what they are talking about. Ask workmates for recommendations (you'll learn a bit about them from their answers as well!)  However, for big events it is always helpful to go to places you have tried and tested. You are better able to focus on the evening when the place is familiar and where the staff know you. You can make recommendations, you know the wine list, and you are familiar with the way things are done. You don't have many things to worry about...just enjoy the meal and the experience of good service and a happy environment.
How To Choose A Good Restaurant For Lunch?
Going to a restaurant for a lunch with family or friends can be a great experience. However, it can spoil your day, if you are made to pay for bad food or poor service or poor ambience at a restaurant. Thus choosing the right restaurant becomes important. With the growing number of restaurants and each claiming to be the better than the other, you get many options to choose from. Availability of many options makes the choice of the perfect eating place a difficult task.
Choice of the best restaurant is a decision based on personal choice and is affected by many factors like – budget, availability of restaurant, cuisine preference, value for money, menu offered, satisfaction level, etc. One restaurant that may be a favourite for someone may not be liked at all by the other person. However, a few things are always necessary to be considered while choosing the perfect place for a lunch. How should one choose the perfect restaurant for lunch? Here are a few tips.
You must check various options available for restaurants in the specific area from the internet, local advertisements in newspapers and magazines, references of friends and relatives and all other possible sources. The option that you are not considering might be the best one. Once you have a list of the options available, you must evaluate them and choose the best one according to your criteria. Of course, it is not possible to test each and every restaurant personally. You can however, check for restaurant reviews online, ask friends and relatives about their preferences, check the website of restaurants, if any, etc. to get an idea. Based on your research you can narrow down to a few selected ones. The next step is to judge which one offers exactly what you want from a lunch experience at a restaurant.
Cleanliness is the first and foremost thing that needs to be given attention. If the restaurant is not clean, the kitchen area might be worse. So rather than eating unhygienic food at an unhealthy place, one should prefer checking out the other restaurants. How to check the cleanliness levels? Check whether the floor, tables, crockery, waiter dresses, smell, etc. are clean.
Another important thing that must be noticed is the number of customers. If the restaurant does not have a single customer at lunch time, which is the peak time, there are chances that something is wrong either with the food quality or the ambience or service or overall value for money. However, it can be considered as an option on the grounds that it is a new one and yet to establish its name.
Price on the menu card is another vital factor affecting the choice. Good things come for high prices? It is not always true. The overall experience of having food at a restaurant will be enjoyable and you would want to experience it again, if it does not make a hole in your pocket, i.e. you are not spending more than what you think is the right amount to spend. Thus the price charged for the food served is imperative to be considered. Not only the price but also the quantity of food served is important. The price may be in comparison to the other restaurants, but the quantity may be far less. Your decision may vary based on the quantity served.
Parking space may not be directly linked to the food but has a say in the choice of a restaurant. Would you like to go to a restaurant where you have to line up for hours to get a parking space or walk for kilometres from the parking place to the restaurant? You may do that if the other things like – the food quality, ambience, service, etc. are exceptionally good or you don’t have a choice.
If you or someone who is going to have lunch with you are looking for a special request in your order, you must check that in advance. Special requests can include a less salt food, onion less food, etc. If the restaurant entertains special requests, it signifies that it values the customer choice and is willing to go an extra step to prove that.
Variety of food served by the restaurant shall also be considered. Variety helps to satisfy the taste buds of different people with different preferences. Preference can be given to the restaurant offering the maximum variety along with the other considerations. Service quality and ambience make a lot of impact in the customers mind about the restaurant. Thus you must consider the same. You may have to try many restaurants before getting the best one. The base line for selecting a good restaurant is evaluating the value for money offered. This will include the food quality, service timings, the overall mood of the place, quantity offered, cleanliness, etc. 
Formulating a Winning Restaurant Concept
Questions to Ask
Figuring out what kind of restaurant to open will be one of the most important decisions you'll make. Once you make this decision, everything else will flow from it -- from the dining room design to what sort of menu to develop to how many people to hire.
There are a lot of things to decide on when formulating your restaurant concept. The most important questions to ask are, "What kind of restaurant would I love to eat in everyday? The concept you choose should be something you love, since you'll be giving your time, money and sweat to this enterprise.
The next question you ought to ask is, "What kind of restaurant does my area need?" Every town has restaurants, and the best way to beat the competition is to offer something a little bit different from the rest.
Instead of opening an Italian restaurant like the one down the street, think about something that your area needs. What type of restaurant do you wish were in your town? Open that restaurant.
Real Life Concept Examples
Take Will Goldfarb, for example. He's a pastry chef who wanted to open a bar that felt like people were eating in his kitchen at home. He recently opened Room 4 Dessert in Manhattan, where he assembles desserts right in front of his customers while his mixologist serves up cocktails.
Inspiration for concepts comes from within and also from trends you read about and see while traveling. There's a new market segment called Meal Assembly, for example. People who don't really want to cook, but who want to put a nice meal on the table for their family go to a commercial kitchen where all the guesswork and labor is taken out of the process. How about developing a restaurant concept that would build on this trend?
Concept Considerations
If you have your heart set on opening a lunch place where locals can order your mom's meatloaf sandwiches, then obtaining a liquor license probably doesn't make sense. Neither do white tablecloths. You probably will offer a limited menu of sandwiches, maybe some soups and a salad or two. You won't need a huge kitchen with an army of chefs. You'll need a line cook or two and a prep cook. You'll probably want to offer those delicious sandwiches for take out. Depending on your area, you may need to offer delivery. If you're catering to the downtown office crowd, you probably want to be closed at night and on the weekends.
The more formal the concept, the more complex the menu and the more people you'll need to hire. If you plan to start your restaurant on a shoestring, keep the concept simple and small to save money. Now that you're working on your concept, you'll need to formalize a business structure and start securing financing.
Atmosphere
You should decide at the outset what kind of place you want to run. Will it have a scenic location with a great view and outside dining? Will it be a dark, romantic place for couples to dine? Will it be a casual eatery serving nearby office workers?
Knowing what kind of place you want to open at the start will save you time and money. You won't waste time looking for the wrong type of location and you won't waste money on design plans and buying the wrong type of chairs and lighting, etc.
Concept Checklist
A restaurant concept results from a combination of the following features:
Serve Liquor
Full Menu vs. Limited Menu
Take out
Delivery
Catering
Atmosphere 
Concept Checklist as a Menu for Starting a Restaurant
The concept checklist contains important components of the restaurant business model. Each item on the check list will directly impact your revenue. Deciding not to serve liquor, for example, may be the right choice if you're opening a casual breakfast and lunch place, but know that it will limit your revenue and that you'll have to have that many more turns. Similarly, if you're opening a fancy upscale dinner restaurant, you may decide that delivery is not an option because your elegantly plated food will not travel well.
Use the concept checklist to deicde how each items fits into your concept and business model.
How to Choose a Restaurant for a Business Function
When you're wining and dining clients at a business lunch or dinner, match the venue and food to the style of your business function. Is it a brainstorming lunch with colleagues, a yearly review with an employee or a dinner with an important client? Pick the right venue and menu, and get the job done right.
Instructions
Set your budget. Most businesses have a cap on event expenditures. Look at the price range of each restaurant that's in the running, and factor in beverages and tip.
Have the restaurants send you a menu so that you can evaluate your options. Choose one that serves a variety of choices or traditional favorites (chicken, meat, fish and vegetarian dishes such as pasta), where all of your guests will find something they enjoy.
Visit the restaurants where you're considering holding the event. Look for appropriate space to mingle before the meal starts (for evening affairs), take the noise level into consideration, check out the bathrooms, read the wine list and scope out seating arrangements.
Note how far the restaurant is from your office and figure out how everyone will get there. Is there a parking lot or a valet? Convenience is key if you need to maximize available time, particularly for lunch.
Make a reservation. Request a special area of the restaurant, or better yet, ask for a private room or banquet hall if you have a large group.
Consider setting up seating ahead of time. Decide who sits where: Pair dining partners strategically, facilitate access between key people, and show respect to the top dogs.
Decide whether you'll have a prix fixe meal served or have guests order off the regular menu. If you're putting together a special menu, you may want to ask clients or business colleagues if they have any food allergies or dietary restrictions.
How to Choose the Best Hotel and the Best Restaurant while in Paris
When choosing your hotel and the restaurant you want to visit in Paris, you should consider your budget. You should also consider your dislike and likes. Keep in mind that not every restaurant in Paris severs French dishes. You have a choice of pizza shops, French diners, well rounded menus and more.
To learn more about Paris and its dishes and restaurants you may want to talk with your local travel agent or go online to review the various diners. If you consider your budget and tastes first, it will help you make good choices. There are many choices to choose from in the beautiful country of Paris, France.
How to consider hotels in Paris
The hotel is rated, depending on courtesy of customer service, food, rooms, etc. If you know which hotel you want to stay in Paris, you can go online and find reviews. Look for the four and five star hotels. Three star hotels are good too. Paris hotels are designed to fit your needs. Many hotels in Paris offer special equipment for the handicapped, which is a good thing because there are many people with special needs.
Some of the best rated hotels in Paris include the Hotel Bristol. The hotel is rated three stars. The hotel is near Champ Ely sees and the Madeleine, this hotel is also rated with 3 stars, since it is the Hotel Castes and its near Musee Du Louvre. Another fabulous hotel in Paris is the three star, Hotel Luxemboubou Parc near St Germain. Many other hotels in Paris are rated at three also. The hotels are all very nice hotels and remember that Paris wants you to love Paris the way they love it, so the managers work hard to accommodate you. Paris hotel managers are confident that the entire family will enjoy their stay. The hotels all serve daily breakfast, which is a good way to start your morning.
Keep in mind when choosing hotels in Paris, remembering that you want to stay at near areas where you may want to visit. For instance, if you want to visit the Aldaz restaurant, search for a hotel in this region.
How to choose your restaurant
When it come to food you what the best, so let us see what we can come up with while visiting Paris. If you are in the mood for some Middle Eastern food you will want to try out this resonant for size, it is the Aldaz. Perhaps you do not have an Eastern taste, and then visit the Aubacou, which serves some of the tastiest French dishes in town.
You may be on a tour and be in a hurry to eat so you may want to go to the Angelina which is a tea cafÃ© that serves sandwiches and salad for all the busy people on the run. Then they have the Blue Elephant which Asia food is served here. As you see, when you walk down the streets of Paris you have many choices to make.                                                                          
How to I choose activities before returning to my hotel?
Then you may decide that you want to wear off that food. Good for you, since Paris offers you many things you can do before returning to the hotel.
Maybe you want to just take a walk though the gardens or take a ride on the horse and carriage. You may also want to go for a drink and some dancing so why not visit the Baiser pub. No matter what you decide, you will make the right decision. The main thing is that you have fun in Paris. 
How to Choose a Restaurant for Valentine’s Day
I’m excited for Valentine’s Day, but sadly, I know that fondness for the V Day is hardly universal. It’s intended to be a celebration of friendship and affection, love and devotion, but for far too many people it engenders much less ecstatic emotions, among them loathing and disgust. And as far as I can tell, apart from the hyper-commercialization of Valentine’s Day and the societal standard that suggests that being paired-up is a must when mid-February rolls around, one of the most frequent reasons people have for disliking the holiday is the pressure to plan and execute a perfect evening. If that’s your chief complaint, don’t worry, we’ve got you covered! First up: the meal.
Getting first-rate dinner reservations on Valentine’s Day is often a must, because dining out is one of the most common ways couples celebrate. Of course, the good restaurants fill up fast, although what constitutes a “good restaurant” is largely up to a particular pair of people.  You could decide to go four-star swanky, or you could opt to revisit the little burger joint you two dined at on your first date. You might embrace adventure and test out a fresh establishment, or you might simply settle into your usual cozy booth at a favorite eatery. Whatever direction you’re thinking, keep in mind the typical inclinations of your mate. The whole point is to show you put some thought into picking a place that pleases.
If you’re still drawing a blank, try surfing through menus online. Many restaurants feature extravagant prix fixe menus on Valentine’s Day, and perhaps your date has always wanted to sample some fancy dishes of a certain cuisine. That could point you in a more specific direction since now is your perfect chance to make that happen. Or maybe you want to check out the dining at a local vineyard. Great wine pairings would be virtually guaranteed! Whichever avenue you opt for, good luck with your planning, and while you’re at it, don’t forget to follow How-to Stuff on Facebook and Twitter. You can also head over to iTunes and download our new 
How to choose good restaurant in Taiwan - rule of thumb Nr.1
Word of mouth marketing works great in any business, in restaurants it's just a lifeblood and having your own evangelists, you could just live only on it, without any flashy or annoying signs, small blue trucks, who use loudspeakers driving early Saturday morning in your side street to wake you up with abusing announcement of new menu or a boy near MRT, who hands out advertisement. Having said that, I need to tell, that any of my customers for marketing issues I would still recommend my 101 things to do for marketing checklist, however keeping in mind, that word of mouth is the thing, that will generate the business. And why word of mouth sparks sometimes, is that good food, or your creative design or betel nut style girls as waitresses? In taiwan it's food, food and again food. You can do everything, but if you will have bad food, you will have no WOM. Truth to be said, that using a tricks and catches I would brainstorm with owner - there will be and must be the new customers, but if you will give dishes that not tastes good, they will not come again. If you want to open restaurant in Taiwan -remember, food first, marketing second, outlook third. And that means for you, as a foreigner or tourist here also. Do not be fooled by shiny and fancy designs - you will mostly get much better and tasty food in restaurants, that look not so clean (in your western eyes), not so fashionable and not so you write it. This post is introduction of series of such examples. When WOM + good food makes miracles happen.
So, how to spot a good restaurant having no friend around to suggest it?
Easy.
Look one with most people inside, and the most good one will be the one where people are not only sitting inside, but also standing outside and waiting for food to be cooked for takeaway home. It's just that easy, and my wife taught me this rule just one as first rules when I went to Taiwan.
I tried break this rule. I tried specially choose a most empty restaurant on a street, to get really decent on taste food and say - yes, the busy place is much better. I tried break this rule many times. Still, busy paces have better food and nothing can break this law. It's like a watering hole in desert - the best ones are most busy. I will give an examples one by one in my blog, as i will happen to visit such "busy" places, that look totally "grey" from outside, and can be easily missed, if criteria for choose is a fancy sign.
I do not say also, that all what is made in boutique style with expensive interior and golden color plumbing in WC - they are, and some are also good, but ROI - return on investment, (pleasure of good food per dollar amount paid) will be much better at those, what you will choose at this simple rule.
Note - rule works much better in local districts, in centers, especially, in tourist busy places it might work worse, since much people are same as you not locals. But in local living districts, night markets - this rule again works perfectly.
EXAMPLE NR.1 (more on next posts, so stay tuned)
One of such restaurants are on Beipin road in Taichung. Also, it's a lot of time to drive from our location to there, she's constantly at least 2 or 3 times going exactly to there, and became pure evangelist of this restaurant suggesting it to everyone for lunch, and so off we went.
Choose the Perfect Restaurant for Your First Date
First dates can be stressful. Even a date with someone you have spent time with while chumming with friends and, maybe, even knowing some of his or hers interests may be stressful as a first date is a first date. A date with someone you met online, maybe in a chat room or a dating service, can, also, be stressful. Even if you have “talked” for some time, not having met or having heard each others voices mostly makes you strangers. Someone you have met briefly is really a stranger, too. But do your “homework” to prepare for your first date and you, hopefully, can eliminate a lot of stress and have a really great time.
Going out to eat on a first date is nice thing to do and a good way for you and your date to get to know each other.  Shouldn’t getting to know each other be a main priority on a first date?  Read the tips below to help pick that perfect or nearly perfect first date restaurant as the thought you put into it will likely be noticed.  Maybe you will put some happy smiles on your date’s face.  How very nice!
Picking a first date restaurant is not a time to go exploring. It can be frustrating, if you don’t find what you think you want and the hunt can cause more stress, which doesn’t help in making that first date smooth. You may find a restaurant that looks perfect and the menu seems great, but it is still an unknown and not the best idea for a first date.
Using a restaurant guide, especially online, can really be helpful. There are, also, fine printed guides. Whether it comes from a printed book or an online guide, make sure all the information you read is relatively recent. Things often change quickly and could make your first date nearly be a disaster. Many guides have good descriptions of the food, the atmosphere, the cleanliness, the service, and more. Often there are professional restaurant reviews. The guides that, also, have customer reviews, are the best as whether  some one enjoys or doesn’t enjoy a dining experience, the reviews given are usually very truthful, sometimes brutal. That helps you in making a choice.  Often there are photos to give more of an idea of the looks of restaurants and many have menus to view. Most guides, reflect a price range of each restaurant. If you really felt you had to explore and think you found the “perfect” restaurant, maybe it will be in a restaurant guide to help endorse or discard your idea.
Many people opt for a restaurant they are familiar with, but carefully picking someplace new, with the help of a restaurant guide, can be fun as you and your date experience new food together for the first time. It can, also, impress since, if you are subtle in what you say, it will show you cared enough to take the time to find the restaurant.
Another reason to use a guide in choosing a restaurant, rather going to a place your friends and family frequent, is when they see you, they may hover around “checking out” your date.  They might even “pull up” a chair, without being asked, which happens. The chance for you and your date to get to know each other may be lost and your date might feel uncomfortable with unfamiliar conversation.  There may not be a second chance!!
It’s good to ask your date ahead of time about food dislikes and any dietary restrictions, so you don’t choose a place that has nearly nothing your date will eat. A restaurant with a good variety helps in pleasing both of your palates. You, may, also, learn that your date absolutely loves a particular kind of food, so that may help in your choice and again show you care.
Also, consider the expense of the restaurant. You don’t want to choose something more than you can really afford as it might make you feel uncomfortable and your date may notice.  If a man asks for a date and picks a fancy, expensive restaurant your date may feel like you are trying to “buy” her.  Your date may be one that likes, or at least sometimes likes to pay for half of the meal and cannot due to the expensive restautant you picked out. So leave fancy restaurants alone on a first date. They are not as relaxing as a more casual place and if you either one of you is not relaxed, (or as relaxed as possible for a first date!) it could make for an awkward experience.  Fancy restaurant dining usually takes quite a bit of time and your date may not want to commit to a lengthy first date.  What if the meeting turns out ugly?  It is hard to leave in the middle of a lengthy dinner. A place more casual makes it easier for either one of you to leave, if wanted, more quickly. A casual restaurant, if the atmosphere is enjoyable, is nice to linger in a while if you find you really relate.
A charming cafe is usually is a good choice.  If you are familiar with one or two that meet some important criteria that is good. Just once again if you pick a restautant with which you are familiar, don’t pick a place your friends and/or family “hang out.”
Think about the noise level.  You do not want a restaurant that is so quiet; it feels nearly like a morgue.  But a place that is too loud, especially from music is not good either. When trying to get to know each other, you don’t want to scream over crowds or music?
Don’t forget the lighting. Not so dark that you can barely see each other or check if the food, especially meat, is cooked to both your satisfaction. But not too bright either as you don’t want to feel like you’re on display and, horrors, what if you’re having a bad skin day!! Just nicely dim lighting is best.
Eating outdoors, if pleasant, is very nice. Often there are flowers and maybe fountains or sculptures. Something to talk about and it can be quite romantic. But don’t do anything too romantic on a first date as your date may feel pressured and uncomfortable.
When picking the restaurant if you decide to choose a familiar place, think about the wait staff.  Was the service poor?  Was the staff neglectful?  Did your waiter have an attitude? Did any of the wait staff spends so much unnecessary time at your table that the two of you can barely visit. Even good food does not make up for bad service. If looking at restaurant guides in choosing a restaurant, pay attention to anything you find about the employees.
If going to a busy restaurant, make a reservation so there isn’t that awkward standing in line. Again, it shows thoughtfulness.
A type of restaurant that can be great fun (if you first checked out your date’s food preferences) is a Japanese restaurant with the food cooked at your table. Watching the food chopped, cooked, and “used’ as entertainment gives a lot to talk about while eating. There are usually other people at the table to enjoy laughing with and clapping for the cook. If either of you want to leave after dinner, a Japanese restaurant is easy to leave without feeling uncomfortable. If you both want to stay awhile most Japanese restaurants have a quiet area, perhaps a bar, to visit and maybe enjoy an after dinner drink.
If thinking of choosing a restaurant from a guide book, if it makes you feel more comfortable, to visit ahead of time go ahead. Sit in the bar, if the dining room can be seen from there. Watch how the wait staff takes care of customers and their interaction. Do not take a first date to a place where the employees call nearly everyone “you guys.”  Not impressive at all.  So listen up when watching.  Look at people’s faces when eating to get an idea if they like their food.  Check out the lighting and noise level. Look at the prices as even menus are online or in a book, the prices are not always shown.
If interested, you may want to note the wine selection if you feel that you and/or your date might like some wine.  Make sure it doesn’t come from a “box.”  You don’t want to look cheap when trying to impress that first date.  The wine does not need to be overly expensive, and there should be some that is not, but a bit of a nice selection is good.
Another thing to consider is what you decide to eat.  Some foods are really best avoided on a first date.  What you eat might make the difference as to whether you get that second date.  No spaghetti. Not very impressive to have a long string of spaghetti hanging from your mouth when talking.  The sauce can easily splatter ending up on your clothes.
Don’t eat ribs either. Messy hands, messy mouth, and maybe messy on your clothes.  Corn on the cob is not a good idea as again messy mouth from the butter if you don’t wipe off well. Very distracting for your dinner partner if you talk or smile with kernels of corn stuck in your teeth.  No lobster either, too expensive for a first date and again messy.  When trying to crack a lobster open, the juices tend to splatter about the table and maybe on your clothes or, how awful, if close enough,  juices might land on our date.
Another food to avoid is spicy food. Your knowledge of spicy foods and hot foods, maybe from another country, may, in the beginning, impress your  date, but do you really want the watery eyes and runny nose that often comes with it. Garlic bread and other garlicky foods are a good idea to avoid, too. You and your date may want to sit a little closer after dinner and do you really want to have garlic breath?  And what if you get to have that kiss goodnight?  No matter what you eat or drink, always pop some good breath mints in your pocket or bag before meeting your date.
Taking the care to prepare for a first date, with dinner, by putting some real thought into a restaurant choice, maybe by looking at restaurant guides and remembering what not to order should help in eliminating a lot of first date stress or from being embarrassed. You want to impress your date with your thoughtfulness and knowledge. Especially if you want that second date.  Enjoy!
How to choose the right location for your restaurant
Get the location wrong for a new restaurant and you can kiss goodbye to it being a success – but just how on earth do you get it right? Words Chris Maillard Photography Laurie Fletcher Location, location, location – so good they named it ..
Get the location wrong for a new restaurant and you can kiss goodbye to it being a success – but just how on earth do you get it right?
Words Chris Maillard Photography Laurie Fletcher
Location, location, location – so good they named it three times.
And even if that smug couple from the TV programme make you itch with fury, you can't ignore the idea behind their series.
If you're looking for a new site, thinking about changing an existing one, or just mulling over a rough idea, location is the single most important factor you'll have to consider. It will make the difference between huge success and abject failure.
So here are the three simple rules that you'll need to know. Learn these and you can't fail. They are… Sorry. That was a lie. There are no simple rules. If there were, everybody would be a site-spotting genius and every restaurant in the world would be permanently full of glamorous high-spenders and immensely profitable.
And as we know, that only applies to your own restaurant, not all those hopeless incompetents just down the road.
There are, however, some principles, a smattering of hints, and a few useful pointers that you can use to make your gamble on a site less of a blind leap of faith and more of a considered business move. So with the aid of a gaggle of experts and restaurateurs who've experienced the highs and lows of location-hunting, we've tried to put together a rough guide to the black art of restaurant geography.
The first expert we tackled was Stephen Wrather, a Partner at commercial property specialists Mason Owen. They specialise in finding and obtaining sites for the very biggest high street names. If you've been out shopping lately, it's highly likely you'll have been in one of the sites they've sorted. So if anyone knows about what makes a successful site and what doesn't – it'll be Stephen.
Over a coffee in the Starbucks near his office (a good secondary location, decent traffic and very near a major shopping street with a high pedestrian footfall) he outlines the importance of the right location. And not just nearly the right location, but exactly.
"Just two or three shopfronts the wrong way can make a huge difference," he explains. "It can literally be a matter of a few metres. If you look at many high streets, there's a point where the passing trade suddenly peters out. In some cases, it's almost as though it falls off a cliff. You go from a healthy trade to nothing.
"This is usually due to a big draw – a major shop or amenity that people will be aiming to go to. That's why big shopping centres often stand or fall on the quality of their flagship stores. If they have a major brand to bring people in – a John Lewis, Marks & Spencer and so on – then the whole place will do well. Which is why small specialist shopping centres rarely succeed.
There's no single major reason for droves of customers to go there.
"Of course, that can change. I've been looking at a development in a major shopping street recently – sorry, I can't tell you where – which has the classic high street pattern; at one end trade just dwindles to nothing. But I know that a little further down that street, permission is about to be given for a very big name store.
When that opens, the previously deserted end of that street will fill up with shoppers, and the businesses there which were struggling (and probably paying cheap rents as a result) will get very busy. That sort of insider information is invaluable in my business."
It is, of course, all about footfall. That's the first rule (or as close as you can get to it in this vague and wobbly area). If your restaurant is in the middle of an area crammed with hungry people going about their business, you stand more of a chance than if you're in a cul de sac behind the gasworks. Bleeding obvious, really.
Not that everybody agrees, and some have done well by ignoring that advice – examples include Harvey's, the famous place in thengrubby Wandsworth that spawned those monsters Marco and Gordon; Sat Bains' place in Nottingham, described memorably in a review by Matthew Norman as being in "the more rustic end of an industrial estate in Nottingham"; the late-lamented Thyme in Clapham, which was almost impossibly difficult to find, and many more – see our sidebar on what must be one of the most remote and lovely restaurants in Britain. It's worth the trek.
But succeeding off the beaten track involves becoming a destination in your own right, which is decidedly complicated and deserves a dedicated feature all of its own.
For most of us, being somewhere which customers can happen across without an Ordnance Survey map, a native guide and a week's supply of Kendal Mint Cake is a much simpler and more reliable method. But here's the problem – unless you're launching a restaurant chain 30 feet from your front door, you can't know every area like the back of your hand.
Here's where rule number two comes in – Do Your Homework. Thoroughly.
There are several ways to find out about a site's suitability. Rather obligingly, our retail property guru Stephen has come up with a list of useful ways to get your head around some of the tricky bits, and even steal a march on your rivals – see our ‘Sources and Resources' boxout .
But once you've found out about planning consents, lease values and so on, you still haven't got the whole picture. And, though you've got a million things to do if you're planning a launch, and even more if you're already running another site somewhere else, there's no substitute for actually being there.
Prowl around the area, talk to local shopkeepers and other businesspeople, sit in your potential rivals' restaurants. Make notes of the sort of people that wander past and what they're up to. Are they looking for somewhere to eat? Or are they just walking the dog? Are they the type of customer that your would-be operation will be looking for? Or are they more likely to sit at home with a bucket of KFC?
Go to your chosen area at different times of the day; particularly lunch and evening, but also first thing in the morning and mid-afternoon. Is there a potential trade in breakfast or afternoon tea? Or is there a horrendous school run traffic jam which makes the site a no-go area for hours? The only way to find out for sure is to get off your backside and go there. You won't find this sort of thing posted on the internet. And, of course, somebody trying to sell you a dodgy lease won't let on if there's a problem.
You don't need telling, of course, that a site with the wrong sort of customers is as bad as one with none. You may have found a lovely double-fronted site with exactly the layout you've dreamed of at an affordable price, but that's as much use as a chocolate frying pan if what you're offering is totally inappropriate.
Fish'n'chips or foie gras? You need to know.
Which is where doing in-depth research comes in. This is at the root of the classic roll-out problem which has been the death of many a high-profile wannabe restaurant chain.
Once they've got a successful local presence somewhere they know inside out, they try to roll out the concept nationwide.
However, the stresses of running a restaurant or two, raising the capital for expansion and doing all the admin to grow the company often means that the founder(s) – the people who have the instinct for what works and what doesn't, which is why they've been successful – take their eye off the ball. Their research is disorganised and skimpy, their visits to potential sites are fairly fleeting, and before you know it, they've signed on the dotted line for a site, or several, that might have looked good one afternoon, but are in the wrong place, attract the wrong crowd or are busy at the wrong times.
Many big names have got this wrong. Chez Gerard struggled with some of its sites; even the mighty Pizza Express has had its site-related setbacks. Both Fish! And Fishworks (what is it about fish restaurants?) hit the rocks when their hasty rollouts rolled over and sank.
One chain that has been glowingly successful, however, is Carluccio's. And that's largely down to the formidable – and formidably thorough – Priscilla Carluccio. Her chain is unashamedly aimed at the affluent middle classes, and she has a laser-guided eye for finding places where they're plentiful. In case you didn't know, she happens to be the sister of Terence Conran, whose eye for middle-class taste has been unerring. It must run in the family.
If the site's not right, Priscilla won't open. "We look for places that are perfect for our type of restaurant," she says. "We don't just open all over the place. That would be a disaster.
"We are mainly looking in the South-East, partly because we don't want to make the chain of command too long, but also because that's largely where our market is. We think there is potential for expansion in many of the better-off suburbs and the nicer regional towns, but we are very particular about the right sites."
If you're a high street operator, there are some good pointers you can collect about your intended site. First, what are the shops around it? Iceland, Poundland and Asda? Maybe you need to reconsider the Michelin-starred fine dining concept. Scented candle shops, an exoticlooking artisan bakery and somewhere selling expensive baby buggies? Quick, get Priscilla Carluccio on the phone… Still, some sites look good on paper, have the right surrounding businesses, and check out with raw footfall figures. But they're deathtraps and suffer from Doomed Site Syndrome.
DSS is difficult to diagnose, but it's suprisingly easy to spot – it's all in the history. How many owners have had the lease you're being offered?
One for the last 25 years? Lovely. Two or three in that time? Perfectly reasonable. Or one every 18 months since 1963? Oops.
The best way to find out is to ask the locals.
The landlord may look shifty and change the subject, his agent may simply not know or care, and the previous tenant may well already be heading towards the horizon in a van full of halfpaid- for catering equipment and red bills.
But the old lady who lives over the road, the bloke in the newsagents or the landlord of the pub down the street will have counted them in and counted them out. Play Sherlock and dig up as much dirt as you can.
If you can, track down an ex-employee who's worked at the site. It's a small world – you probably know somebody who knows somebody who, and so on. A sacked chef or a disgruntled ex-GM may well have an axe to grind with their former bosses, but they've got no reason to tell porkies to somebody else (who might be a future source of work).
Everybody knows a Doomed Site. Stephen Wrather mentioned one in Battersea. I know of a perfect example in Islington. Wherever you are, there's bound to be a restaurant that's been Indian, French, a fun pub, Chinese, Italian, Spanish, Thai, a wine bar, Moroccan and Japanese. That's just this year. Beware… One more interesting quirk of the location game is rooted in the hoary old saying ‘one man's problem is another's opportunity'. In other words, taking on a site that has had previous problems doesn't necessarily mean you'll suffer from the same thing. Particularly if you're buying in what you hope is an up-andcoming area. That's a whole different game.
There are, of course, plenty of obvious sites available in the UK, thanks to the slow death of the local boozer. Every town has plenty of old pubs that are staggering into oblivion with a clientele of bedraggled old drunks and desperate karaoke sessions on a Sunday night. If you can fight off the developers trying to split it into 43 identical hamster-cage-sized flats, an old rundown pub is a ready-made spot for anything from a quick and dirty boho gastropub to a fully naperied fine-dining establishment.
But how do you spot which ones are diamonds in the rough and which just need dynamiting?
And again, how can you work out which ones are in an area set to explode and which are stuck in a social minefield?
Yet again, do your homework. Look at the local listings magazines. Is your particular slice of urban dereliction humming with underground artists, hipper-than-hip clubs and web designers with double-take haircuts? Congratulations, you've found the next Shoreditch. And if you've been off the mark quickly enough, you might be just in time to get in on the ground floor at a bargain-basement price.
Or if you're looking somewhere more suburban, take a wander round the streets. If it's a winter night, take a sniff. No, really. If you can smell woodsmoke, that means that the middle classes have fired up their carefully restored Victorian grates. Or check the skip count. If a good number of houses are hurling avocado bathroom suites into the street and installing butlers sinks and stripped-pine kitchen units, then you've found a promising rich vein of potential restaurant-goers.
The business pages are full of potential opportunities too. The residents of Salford Quays in Manchester, for instance, are bracing themselves for an invasion of BBC people when the new studios are built. And when the executives arrive, they'll need somewhere to eat.
Which is true of any large-scale office move. Big companies are relocating all the time, often away from London to cities like Bristol or Norwich.
Then there's the stretch around the M4 – Reading, Newbury, Maidenhead and so on – often unimaginatively dubbed Britain's Silicon Valley. As the web economy comes of age, all those sharp-suited database wranglers will start settling down and looking for somewhere in the area to have nice lunches. No FT? No idea.
Just remember – there's absolutely no substitute for doing your homework. Pay a visit to a potential site. Then visit it again. Ask questions, find out facts. Knowledge is power.
But after all that, you might still manage to make a success of that wildly unsuitable site you just fell in love with. In which case, hats off to you. The French have the expression ‘coup de coeur' – literally, blow to the heart – which means the sudden headrush when you know something's perfect for you. But they also have the equally succinct expression ‘coup de foudre'
describing a decision taken on a whim, and often one that leads into a great steaming pile of trouble. Try to remember which is which…
SOURCES and RESOURCES
upmystreet.com - one great resource for getting the rough lie of the land in an area is Up My Street – it's got a decent snapshot of an area's social make-up, house prices and so on. But remember it's only looking at what's happened in the past, not what's going to occur in the future.
Finding out business rental details on an area can be tricky – the best idea is to check the big agents' or organisations' websites. Try these:
rics.org – the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. It's a good site for general information and values
cbre.co.uk – CB Richard Ellis, a gigantic commercial property agency. Check out its prices and also take a look at what it has planned for the future joneslanglasalle.co.uk – another huge megaagent; good as an information resource for out-of-town developments
cushwake.com – yet another huge property specialist. They all have highly detailed and searchable sites, though. It's a good idea to have a rummage about to find the best one for your specific needs
brc.org.uk – the British Retail Consortium has all sorts of useful surveys and facts, including regional footfall figures in this goldmine of data The restaurant sector has its own specialist agencies, who tend to know what's going on before anyone else. If you're in the market for an agent, then here's where to begin your search…
daviscofferlyons.co.uk – probably the largest specialist restaurant property agents. All the big names in the industry have used them at one time or another
intrinsic-property.co.uk – Another restaurant specialist; it's had some excellent press lately If you need to know which areas are likely to have big developments, or find out all about what the planners have in mind, you need to investigate the Local Development Framework, which is the council's plan that governs all future building and use.
Find your local council at directgov.uk (go to Directories) then hunt about in the planning department's website for further details about what the developers are up to.
And one trade secret which Stephen, our expert, divulged after a lot of arm-twisting, is the Land Registry. The main site landreg.gov.
uk is highly useful for finding the right location, with house price data and much else, but the real gem in its crown (and Steve's priceless professional secret) is the linked land locator at landregisteronline.gov.uk.
With it, you can simply pick out a property you're interested in buying, zoom into it using an aerial photo or map, then pay £6 to get a detailed list of information including who owns it, how much they paid for it and what the site covers. Amazing!
Britain's Worst Location?
The Fox & Hounds at Goldsborough, near Whitby, in North Yorkshire is rather lovely. We're sure you'll love it – once you finally get there.
To find it, you have to turn off an already fairly obscure A-road, then follow a single-track lane through some alarming twists and turns, past a burnt-out house, through the middle of a working farmyard (mind the milk tanker!), turn right at an unsignposted T-junction, then just before the road gives up entirely and turns into a sheep track, there's a tiny old pub wedged between the sea cliffs and the hills. And outside is a sign saying ‘Sorry – we're full'. How did they do that?
The answer is probably something to do with ex-Ivy chef Jason Davies and his stunning cooking, using fresh local ingredients to produce a small, constantly changing menu for a highly selective 30 covers – his wife Sue looks after front-of-house in an efficient and friendly manner. They're busy, often fully booked at weekends, and making a decent living.
"This is our third year," says Jason, "and though it was a bit of a slow start, we're doing really well now. We've never advertised, but early on we had a write-up in the Yorkshire Post which really helped. Alastair Sawday put us in his guidebook and we got in the Good Food Guide, then off the back of that, reviewers from The Guardian and The Times came up. But we've really tried just to attract customers by word-of-mouth.
"There are plenty of people round here who have holiday cottages, so we're busier in the summer, but we get a lot of locals from Whitby and thereabouts, and it's not bad even in winter.
"We haven't got big overheads; we keep the number of covers down so it's manageable and we don't have to employ too many staff.
"We found the place in the local paper; the building's owned by The Mulgrave Estate, a big local estate, and we put a bid in and won it. We haven't changed it much at all!"
Too right. A coat of paint over the swirly Artex walls, a few carefully chosen posters and lamps, and that's your lot. But even though the red plush bench seats and the knee-crushing tables are pure Old Pub, the end result's desperately charming, the food's tremendous and, as many people have decided, it's well worth a detour.
That cheeky sign outside, by the way, reads in full: "Sorry – we're full. But come back, everything's fabulous." 

A fantastic vegetarian restaurant tucked away in the old town; I once spotted Sir Paul McCartney tucking in.
Rasa vegetarian restaurant in Stoke Newington is great - delicious variety of interesting Keralan dishes and all completely vegetarian.
For carnivores, there's a non-veggie version opposite.
Tooting is curry heaven and Kastoori is its nirvana.
The restaurant is run by the Thanki family (from Gujarat via Uganda).
For vegetarians, like us, this is the best of all restaurants.
Start the meal with delicate, filled puris, follow up with marsala dosa (filled super-thin pancakes) served with spicy sambar.
Mr Thanki and his staff will help you choose your meal.
This ensures that you do not over-order, which is easy to do.
Finish off with kulfis (Indian ice cream) and the final surprise of a modest bill for such a wonderful feast.
Modern Italian Pizzeria - great food, with lots of twists on the usual pizzas, including one based on a full English breakfast.
Main one is just off Albert Square but a second has opened recently in Chorlton.
Simply the best veggie restaurant that I have ever visited.
Reading the menu is part of the pleasure - it has a language all of its own, e.g.
Bengal Babs -Tandoori spice loaded halloumi kebab, served with smoked almond custard risotto, tamarind tang, pink onion and green mango sas, and podi dust tomatoes; Cigarillo Mejoolie - Deep-fried parchment pastry crammed with cardamon mejool date and pistachio lemon mince, cinnamon dust, fennel seed sugar, served with pomegranate bead, orange and grapefruit fillets and a mint tisane granita.
The flavours and textures are divine.
The staff are efficient and friendly and the restaurant also caters for vegans and those who need a gluten free diet.
I visit regularly and am never disappointed.
A great Turkish restaurant with lots of atmosphere.
Always busy and buzzing and perfect for a party or a date, or dinner with friends.
The food is very reasonably priced and there are some delicious vegetarian dishes (don't miss the moussaka).
If Gallipoli is full, try along the street at Cafe Gallipoli, or Gallipoli Again (yes, there's 3 of them!).
To my knowledge, the greatest sausage and mash restaurant around.
Three types of sausage, three types of mash, three types of gravy, plus specials - mix and match your way to mash heaven.
Champ with pork and apple and onion gravy, if you're asking.
Old station beautifully converted into a museum of art on the banks of the Seine, taking the place of the old Jeu de Paume where the Impressionist paintings used to be.
Fantastic cafes and restaurant too.
A restaurant right on the shoreline (in the arches almost directly the below the Grand Hotel) which sources excellent organic produce with an eye to environmental sustainability.
Very good modern British food - excellent fat chips, sirloin, absolutely delicious Dover sole and cracking fish soup are among the highlights - and leave room for pudding if you can.
Pricey but far better value than similar London joints.
Friends Restaurant is a non-profit restaurant run by former street children who are being provided with training.
It's part of Mith Samlanh Friends, the Cambodian arm of Friends International.
The food is good, the service is friendly, and your bill helps to fund Friends' charitable aims.
Go to the shop and gallery while you're there.
A breath of fresh air on the Indian dining scene, just round the corner from Brick Lane on Bethnal Green Road, but so different.
Fantastically fresh food, cooked in an open kitchen in front of you, and they do not use artificial food colouring and use fish from sustainable sources.
Their lamb chops are to die for, and the Tandoori Raan (leg of lamb) is the best I ever had, and to top it up the chocolate milkshakes (Jay Rayner's recommendation in Observer) were spot on.
Bratislava's Old Town centre is completely pedestrianised and has wall-to-wall bars, restaurants, cafes and clubs.
It has a much more relaxed, easy-going and friendly ambience than many other European capitals and, because there are no cars, you can try all the superb Slovak beers, wines and fiery spirits, tottering from one bar to another without fear of being mown down by a Skoda in a hurry.
Highly recommended for gourmets and bon-viveurs everywhere.
Vegetarian Indian street food restaurant run by a friendly couple in Preston Street.
It is one of the few places that I have been to as a vegetarian where I can hold my head up with carnivorous friends.
The food provided is delicious - especially the Bhel Puri for starters and the peas and paneer main.
It also has a wine list to die for - fabulous organic wines or a range of real ales or eastern European beers for those who want a more traditional accompaniment to a curry.
This is a vegetarian restaurant near Sally Lunns.
I am not a 'veggie' but was so impressed by the meal we ate that I bought the recipe book!
Friendly atmosphere,welcoming staff and great cooking makes this restaurant well worth a visit.
Don't let the fact that Michael Winner recommends it put you off.
It's a proper Italian family restaurant - and the food's nice enough - but the star of the show is the really lovely ice-cream in fantastic flavours.
There's a gelateria in the back apparently but I tend to grab and go.
I've had their ice-cream at other places like the Garden Cafe in Regents Park, but don't think that it tastes half as good as when you are sauntering along the road in the sun licking an overloaded cone.
Anthony Bourdain, the New York chef turned best-selling author, is moving to Vietnam because he loves Vietnamese food so much.
Fortunately, Londoners without his resources can find excellent Vietnamese nosh in Hackney.
The section of Kingsland Road just past Shoreditch is a veritable gauntlet of Vietnamese restaurants, but the Loong Kee Cafe is a standout.
Like most Vietnamese restaurants, the decor is simple, although it has had to up its game with the plethora of competition.
The formica tops have been replaced by a more inviting matt surface and the walls have been repainted.
But you do not come here for the interior design.
Besides the excellent pho, a hearty soup of flat rice noodles, brisket and thin red slices of steak that cook in the broth before your very eyes, Loong Kee makes a Vietnamese treat rarely found in London.
A northern dish, Banh cuon consists of very fine minced pork and black mushroom, wrapped in a white thin, translucent layer made of rice flour.
The delicate creatures are sprinkled with dried onions, which have been fried so that you get a wonderful contrast between the velvety smoothness of the rice wrapping and the crunchiness of the onions.
Cha lua, a thick sort of mortadella and fish sauce complete the dish.
If you don't meat, there is the prawn version, not unlike the long white steamed dumplings with prawn in the middle that is a staple of dim sum.
The difference is that the Vietnamese rice wrapping is much more delicate.
Loong Kee does banh cuon to perfection and is the only restaurant I know in the area that does this dish.
That's why you'll see plenty of Vietnamese customers tucking into banh cuon for Sunday lunch.
It's also fun to see non- Vietnamese trying to eat banh cuon with chopsticks.
They are very slippery and seem to take on a life of their own.
There is an added bonus to Loong Kee.
If you fancy some culture afterwards, pop into the Geffrye museum literally next door, a quirky museum with a large garden, which traces the history of English living rooms from 1600.
Monorail is an incredibly cool, independent record shop, with a loads of vinyl alongside the racks of hard-to-find CDs.
Especially good for underground Japanese music and European jazz, it stocks a really varied range of music plus magazines/fanzines.
The shop is situated within vegan bar/restaurant Mono, which also hosts live music and album launches etc in conjunction with the record shop.
I consider myself a seafood addict.
The Oyster Bar in Grand Central Station is my favorite seafood restaurant anywhere.
Take a look at the daily menu on their website.
Cosy, underground cellars form the three rooms of the bistro.
Below ground level, the bistro is a great pre-play venue or meeting place for friends.
When I go home to see my parents we go to the Everyman after I get in to Lime Street.
It's really relaxed and although pretty basic, the menu is consistently varied, tasty and fantastic value.
Without exception, my dad orders the delicious tortilla with salads, and the desserts are highly recommended.
Turkish restaurant on Hanover Street with some of the best mezze I have ever had.
Can't recommend it enough!
A really cool little bar in Argentiere, Undescribably makes the best burger in the valley, I recommend the pineapple, beetroot and egg combo, its ace.
Perfect apres riding food!!!!
This little restaurant and tapas bar in Les Houches has been open scarcely a year, but has already built up a great reputation amongst the locals.
The food is excellent and they cater well for vegetarians, but it's popular so you'd best book in advance.
For eating, drinking & a great gallery in The Baltic.
It's not necessary to use the Quayside Link as the walk from Grey's Monument down Grey Street and Dean Street to The Side passes some of the finest architecture in Britain, never mind England.
There are also a few good pubs and some excellent restaurants on the way to the quay and at the bottom on the right-hand side you will find the wonderful "Side Gallery" Every backpacker knows Bangkok's Khao Sanh Road, but running parallel to it is a much lesser-known alley with all the cheap hostels, bars, restaurants and shops you find on the main drag.
Just far less crowded and frenetic.
Find your way to the Khao Sanh road in the Banglamphu area: Trok Mayom lies just to the north.
Walkable also from Phra Athit river pier.
This website is about the real Budapest, and gives very interesting background details about the history, culture and architecture of this beautiful capital which is slowly losing some of its unique features (old presszo bars, neon signs, dingy borozos) as it changes into a modern European metropolis.
Written by a Hungarian speaker, the articles featured go behind the facade and into much more detail than a guide book could manage.
It has a wealth of information for people who really love Budapest and want to know the city better.
Check out the recent story on the Trabants - really interesting!
Been to Buenos twice now, this place does the best steak without breaking the bank.
Also the huge waiter is hilarious.
Kitted out in the finest Bollywood kitsch, this restaurant does one thing but does it well - thali.
There's live music on Sunday evenings and they operate a tiffin takeout system, which explains why Montpelier residents keep coming and going with insulated take-away towers.
The name is - fortunately - nothing to do with János Kádár, Hungary's last Communist leader, the surname Kádár is quite common (and means 'cooper').
Kádár Étkezde (bistro) is a fabulous little lunch venue in the heart of the historic Jewish district in central Pest.
It's packed with locals enjoying the non-kosher Jewish home cooking; great matzo ball soup, crisp duck leg with spicy red cabbage or boiled beef with a range of fruit sauces (gooseberry, sour cherry, horseradish) served on a ceramic all-in-one airplane style plates.
Uncle Tibi personally greets regulars from the neighbourhood as they pile in and tots up the bill at the end.
The walls of the crowded room are crammed with photos (many autographed) of Hungarian actors and athletes as well as other fans of the bistro including Marcello Mastroiani.
Sip málna szörp (raspberry cordial) at this non-alcoholic eaterie or help yourself from the old-fashioned soda water bottles on every table.
The waitresses are the kindest and most efficient in Budapest, the menu is only in Hungarian, and you'll have to share a table but that's part of the atmosphere.
The last time I ate there, the elderly lady sipping soup at my table had numbers tattooed on her arm.
This was a sudden, brutal, unexpected reminder of Hungary's shocking history.
A little part of Chamonix how it probably was, once apon a time.
Hidden away in the mountain, with no roads, no people; just a little mountain hut specializing in fondu, croute (cheese on baguette), and red wine.
Be warned: it only has cheese dishes!
And don't be surprised when everyone turns around when you walk through the door; it's a local place for local people.
The walk/ride home is rather interesting too.
From the Grands Montets Ski Station, take a little road up the mountain, go through tunnel quite obviously used by skaters, and follow signs through the forest to la cremerie; if lost ask a mountain goat/local.
With delicious food, cosy atmosphere and great service, this small Swedish-run restaurant is justifiably popular.
It has a well thought out Thai-inspired menu, and the best vegetarian food in Chamonix.
This is a new restaurant which is known as the best seafood restaurant in Sultanahmet.
The food is outstanding, you should ask the staff for the special of the day.
The restaurant is on the shore of Marmara Sea with a view of Turkish islands.
The "Boukoleon" name comes from the 5th century.
There used to be a "Boukoleon Palace" standing right where you sit.
Now you can easily see the archeeological heritage of the old time palace.
If you are interested in history, looking for a nice Istanbul view and also outstanding food, I would highly recommend you go to this restaurant.
Hagia Sofia, Sultanahmet, Istanbul Keralan restaurant on the London Road in Liverpool, round the back of Lime Street Station.
Claims to be the only south Indian restuarant in the northwest, and while that may not be true, the lunchtime thalis (£6, veg or non-veg with fish) are a treat, especially a fantastic tangy tomato curry that comes with the veg option.
More elaborate food in the evenings, including superb pot-roast lamb with coconut.
Their vada and aloo bonda are excellent as well, and they'll quickly prepare a take-away bag of snacks if you're catching the train.
Easily the best, and best value, place to get curry in Edinburgh.
Just a handful of tables, no hurry service, everything cooked to order, and massive platefuls you'll struggle to finish.
Cheap, cheerful, and unbeatable.
Very popular with locals and students, but with a very diverse customer profile (based on looking at who's in!).
Worth coming to Edinburgh for.
No, really!
Dubrovnik, it's a unique city in the whole world.
I traveled there in September 2006.
I think Croatia is a great country, it has the whole package; history; cultural richness; beautiful places to visit, and great weather.
Pile Bay-Old Town is very romantic.
We stayed there at apartments near Fort Lovrijenac.
The price was OK and location perfect (only 70 m from magnificent Placa-Stradun).
Nevertheless, the location was quiet.
The staff were obliging and rooms clean.
Another hot tip is the wonderful fish restaurant Orhan near apartments at small idilic Pile harbour.
I recommend visiting Dubrovnik a thousand times!
One of the best restaurants I've ever eaten in, vegetarian or otherwise.
They now also have a few bedrooms upstairs Walk west about three minutes along Washington St.
from the city centre, and it's on your right.
It isn’t that long ago that the idea of global cuisine in Ireland barely extended further than sweet’n’sour chicken balls and lasagne.
The recent economic boom has coincided with an explosion of gastronomic choice, and this city-centre food hall led the way to the current cappuccino-and-panini culture.
It may be a bit overcrowded and chaotic, but that’s part of the charm.
And the variety of authentically prepared international food and drink at reasonable prices make it the perfect touchdown spot for footsore sightseers and shoppers with a taste for the exotic.
Location: Entrances on Middle Abbey Street and Liffey Street, Dublin 1.
Has been tucked away in the Northern Quarter for years now and is still by far the best in Manchester.
Small but well considered menu, great wine list and puddings to die for.
Last time I was there Ainsley Harriot was at the next table (only down point).
The Office is a fantastic bar and restaurant next to the town hall in Argentiere.
It has a warm and friendly atmosphere and serves great steaks and a delicious sticky toffee pudding.
My family ate there four times during our stay and the service and food was consistently superb.
They do lots of tasty vegetarian food as well.
Pivovarsky Dum is a brewpub-cum-restaurant.
As well as the usual light range of Czech pilsner it brews a variety of flavoured beers such as nettle, banana and wild cherry.
Stylish surroundings and decent food.
Babur is (apparently) a bit of a south-east London legend and has existed for over 20 years.
Their takeaway is the best I've ever had (whole spices, judicious application of chilli heat, pretty decent quality meat etc).
They have just refurbished their restaurant (which is in a differnt location to the takeaway).
It's always packed at the weekend with a nice crowd, and no p*ssed-up punters, which could be due to the fact it's a bit dearer than your average ruby due to it's modern take on regional classics.
Good wine-list too, and really helpful, friendly staff.
I really can't recommend this place enough...
"La Zucca Magica" (The Magic Pumpkin) is a fabulous vegetarian restaurant in the South of France.
Once you've got over the pumpkin themed decor, not really a design dream, you can settle down to an imaginative eating experience.
There is no menu, you are served four or five courses of what is on offer that day.
Marco, the chef, gets fresh ingredients daily from the local market so wonderful and varied vegetarian food with an Italian slant.
The contents of each course delightfully explained by the waiter, in our case a mixture of French, Italian and English, his Welsh wasn't so good.
We went on my wife's birthday, towards the end of the meal the kitchen staff banged pans and sang happy birthday.
You need to book and this can be done easily via their website.
Pure Lotus is a wonderful vegetarian restaurant in central Beijing serving all sorts of delicious tofu dishes - including a vegetarian sausage called the "Buddha's Finger".
There is a sense of occasion from the minute you arrive in the candle lit entrance area and the food is presented exquisitely.
We had dumplings and chilli tofu, washed down with jasmine tea.
The only bad thing about Pure Lotus is that it's on the other side of the world!
Down a slightly dodgier backstreet of Brighton is this small family run Indian veggie restaurant.
With the staff walking around barefoot and small children being taken to bed, it really feels like someone's living room.
The food is unlike any other Indian I have ever been to, the best being mouth watering pea and paneer curry and simple but delicious Mumbai potatoes.
The most amazing thing of all about Planet India is that you can have your meal in half portions, meaning you can try two different dishes each time.
If you are in search of a vegetarian snack, Hendersons Of Edinburgh is split over two locations on Hanover Street as well as a bistro on Thistle Street in Edinburgh's New Town.
The restaurant, bistro and deli offer a variety of vegetarian treats as well as other fair trade, organic nibbles.
As a popular arts venue, in the evening you can sit back in the restaurant and enjoy musical performances or after your meal take a look upstairs around the contemporary art gallery.
The Red Lion is a rural pub/restaurant serving home cooked vegetarian and vegan food.
Recently voted one of the top 10 veggie pubs and serving a wide variety of freshly made, tasty and international dishes.
Although not a vegetarian I have spent many a lunchtime with veggie and non veggie friends sampling the delights of the menu.
Some dishes can be purchased frozen which are handy to have in the freezer for those nights you don't feel like cooking.
Well worth making a detour for but booking might be advisable.
Prepare for (or recover from) trekking around Torres del Paine with hearty - but delicious - vegetarian food at El Living in the centre of Puerto Natales.
There is a good range of hot dishes, salads and sandwiches - supplemented by daily specials - including veg moussaka or thai noodles and fantastic cakes such as dark chocolate and peanut butter.
Drinks include homemade lemonade, pisco sours and a selection of wine.
Simon Rimmer's Greens, in the suburb of West Didsbury, has long been Manchester's go-to veggie venue, but it (finally) has city centre competition from DetoxRetox.
Now open Weds - Sun its ex-Vanilla Black and Malmaison staff offer trad options like bangers and mash and a haloumi-based take on fish and chips, and interesting twists on meat-free standards like a cauliflower barley risotto.
All served in friendly and attractive surroundings - a very welcome addition to Manchester's dining scene.
It's relatively expensive - though £20 a head is hardly budget-busting - but the courtyard is delightful, there is often good Indian cultural stuff happening (music etc) and the food is good.
I don't think the hotel itself is worth the vast room charges but it's nice to look at while having dinner.
In the winebar - Sula chenin blanc is drinkable, the sauvignon blanc way tooooo sweet.
Tucked away from Kendal's busy main shopping street in one of the few riverside locations in Kendal.
The Waterside Cafe is hidden away on a traffic- free, pedestrianised area beside the River Kent, making it a longstanding favourite of many locals, but easily missed by visitors.
It meets all the requirements of even the strictest veggies; there's a new menu everyday, vegan and vegetarian meals are cooked on the premises with Fairtrade and organic ingredients, served by very friendly staff.
If the weather's good enough, eat at the outside tables and watch the river flow by.
Then, after a quiet, healthy veggie lunch it will be time to get back to the shopping, or walk off your lunch with a hike across the river to Kendal Castle to see the view that makes Kendal the gateway to the English Lake District.
Step a mere 100m south from Bath Abbey and the Roman baths into one of the oldest streets of Bath and enter the finest vegetarian restaurant in Britain.
There are no Cranks eating in Demuths.
The food is exuberant, exciting, an act of love, reflecting Rachel’s eye for colour, texture, flavour and artful combinations as seen on her world-wide travels.
The simple ingredient becomes a blissful experience.
Try her potato bonda (a green chili potato ball in a gram flour batter served in a spiced tomato soup with toasted cumin oil) or the beetroot aranchi (beetroot risotto balls stuffed with Somerset brie, served with apple jelly, yellow beetroot, pickled fennel, and rocket on a pink grapefruit and mint dressing).
Try the Italian bitter chocolate cake and you may hear the angels singing.
There are more meat-eaters among the regulars than either vegetarians or vegans.
And if still not tempted, in 2008 Demuths was awarded ‘Bath restaurant of the Year’.
That means the ‘Best of ALL’ restaurants in Bath.
That’s no ordinary vegetarian diner.
This restaurant is simply excellent.
It serves pure vegetarian Asian food (no fish or eggs are used in the cooking) at affordable prices.
The menu has over new each time.
If you like tofu, paneer and dahl (to name just a few of their ingredients used) you'll love coming to this restaurant.
As well as Indian dishes they also serve oriental dishes which are noodle based.
My favourite dish is Masala Dosa, a huge pancake of spiced potato which also arrives with a spicy soup and cooling coconut chutney on the side.
It tastes just as good as in the bustling cafes of India I remember so fondly.
An added bonus is that although they don't have a drink licence you can take your own alcohol into the restaurant.
Not to be missed!
A vegetarian restaurant, bar and cinema.
Great vegetarian food, which is both well presented and priced.
Plus they have an offer of a cinema ticket and meal for around £17-£18.
The bar serves vegetarian food, drinks and has live jazz.
Great atmosphere.
A determinedly old-fashioned 1920s-style bar-restaurant in an area of town that is obsessed with the new.
There's an airy bar space plus a cluster of interlinked dining rooms where you can tuck into traditional fare.
The pork and cream pastry starter is enough for two and the Berliner meat platter is superb.
In the summer, there's also a nice beer terrace (biergarten's pushing it a bit).
It's non-smoking and doesn't take credit cards.
Abi Ruchi, a Keralan restaurant in Church Street in Stoke Newington, is great for a cheap, healthy meal and my number one takeaway option.
There are a number of mouthwatering dishes that I could talk about here.
One that springs to mind is the kadala curry (£3.75) - chick peas cooked in probably the tastiest coconutty stuff I've ever eaten.
Another of my favourites is the masala dosa (£4.95).
I've had rather a few dosai in my time and can say confidently that the sambar Abi Ruchi serve with theirs is of a particularly high standard, with its succulent chunky vegetables and rich flavour.
For non-vegetarians there are loads of meat and fish options that I've heard are also of high quality.
Oh, and I don't know what they do to their rice but it's mighty good.
To cap it all, I always receive the warmest of welcomes when I visit Abi Ruchi.
The staff insist on giving me poppadoms and pickles while I wait for my takeaway and the waiters are very knowledgeable about all the dishes, which might be unusual to those not used to south Indian food.
Roots & Fruits is a vegetarian institution.
This unpretentious cafe in central Leeds offers a warm and homely welcome and a menu full of fresh and delicious fare which appeals to veggies and non-veggies alike.
My favourite starter has to be the goats cheese fritters with onion marmalade, and the full breakfast is equal to the task of conquering any hangover you care to throw in its path.
Situated in the Grand Arcade, and open until 7pm, it is also a good choice for a pre-theatre supper.
The drinks menu includes an unrivalled choice of teas and fresh juice, but if you fancy a glass of wine then you’re welcome to take your own.
It's an amazing place, very friendly outgoing staff, vegi food all locally sourced with a Mediterranean"twist", approved by the Vegetarian Society.
Free live music at weekends in gorgeous surroundings showing arthouse/niche and mainstream movies in a state of the art, comfy cinema, all in the English Lake District town of Ambleside!
Squeak is by far my favourite restaurant and the best place to get your hands on delicious vegetarian food.
The restaurant has a very homely, 1970s feel, decorated with warm colours and mismatched furniture.
The menu changes on a regular basis, and is always inventive and exciting, with lots of choice for both vegetarians and vegans.
I visited with a large group of meat eater friends for a birthday one year and they all loved the food and were very pleasantly surprised with how tasty everything was.
Alongside great food, there is also a fantastic selection of both alcoholic and non alcoholic drinks, including organic and vegan beverages.
Squeek, in Nottingham, is my favourite vegetarian restaurant.
The a la carte menu offers vegetarian and vegan variations of the kind of meals that are definitely treats and not something that could be easily made at home – there’s no vegetarian cannelloni or pasta bakes here.
The prices are affordable, a two course evening meal is about £15 and a three course around £17.00 and the comprehensive wine list offers a large of choice of vegetarian, vegan and organic wines and beers.
I definitely recommend the December meze menu – served with either mulled wine or non alcoholic punch.
The atmosphere is relaxed and the clientele mixed; its definitely a restaurant that you feel comfortable in whether you’ve dressed up or just rocked up as you are.
I think even non vegetarians would be impressed with this restaurant.
Regular meat eaters might be put off at the thought of going to a vegetarian restaurant but those concerns will be quickly put to one side once you've stepped inside.
The place has a very contemporary feel with its high ceiling arches, tiled floor and trees growing in huge pots.
It's bright and you get a sense of the vibrant atmosphere as soon as you enter.
There are rows and rows of busy tables served by staff that have a great knowledgeable of the menu and speak very good English.
There are also English menus available.
It was our third visit here last year and the standards of the food have remained consistent.
The soups for the starters are always a little unusual but are very tasty and hearty (and there's plenty of it.) The mains are very much the same and everything tastes very fresh.
The food is very creative without being pretentious.
I would recommend this to any 'foodie' type whether a vegetarian or not.
After several months in Spain, any vegetarian restaurant is a marvellous find.
This charming restaurant in a rustic alley, conveniently placed for a break from sightseeing in the Alcazabar and the Teatro Romano serves vegan and vegetarian meals.
We had the vegan plate: an appetizing and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads.
The restaurant decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments and quotes from previous customers written on the walls and mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors.
We were there in December and sat snuggly inside, in summer you may want to use the shady terrace.
The Diwana is my favourite Indian restaurant in London.
There are three reasons: the first is the fond memories it evokes of childhood trips to London, which invariably featured a re-fuel here.
The second is the quality of the food - speaking as a British Asian it is the only place in London I have found which rivals my grandmother's cooking (although in case she ever reads this, it still comes off second best).
The third is the value for money.
If you go at lunchtime, for roughly £8 plus a drink, you can enjoy the sumptuous vegetarian buffet.
This features dahls to die for, delicious saags, soul- nourishing channa massalas, more salads than you could possibly wish for, home-made raitas, freshly baked naans, pooris and parathas, and a fantastic selection of deserts.
The gulab jaman are especially good here.
The menu is of the same high standard but for the full experience I would wholeheartedly recommend going at lunch.
If you do, don't eat any breakfast, and don't make dinner plans.
You will be too full and in too high a state of food nirvana to want to eat another bite for the rest of the day.
Blanco Cerrillo is one of the oldest bars in Seville.
Very simple and no fuss.
It is perfect for eating fried fish tapas, and the adobo is loved by the locals.
It gets very packed and the tables outside (and any convenient space to place a tapa and beer) are usually occupied.
Once inside though, you can normally holler your order and then inch your way to the bar.
It is equipped with a team of three or four older waiters who are constantly shouting out the orders to the kitchen crew "'obo", "eroneeeeh" (boquerones).
Something that I loved here before the smoking ban was that one of them had a little ciggy nooky-hole and would serve you and go back for a crafty drag every once in a while - now he swigs from a Cruzcampo botellín instead (a small bottle of Cruzcampo).
Tapas are well-priced at only €1.50 a pop.
c/ Jose de Velilla, just off Calle Tetuán, one of the main shopping streets Me and my hubby went to this restaurant as recommended by our hotel staff.
The food was excellent!
We ordered fish soup, squid, and the oven-baked salt- covered fish.
All of them tasted so delicious!
The waiter also knew his food, and advised us on the menu.
Transfer from hotel to the restaurant was also arranged for us.
We got complementary rice pudding for our dessert and Turkish coffee too.
We strongly recommend this place as a must visit seafood restaurant in Istanbul.
Two thumbs up.
Challenge yourself and your kids by taking a thrilling walk over a 30-metre deep chasm on the 20 metre Carrick-a-Rede rope bridge .
Erected by salmon fishermen, it is now run by the National Trust.
£13.70 in the winter months buys a family of all ages a thrilling experience, a sense of achievement and some breath-taking and spectacular views.
Reward yourselves afterward with tea at nearby Coast restaurant, Portrush.
A brilliant family eatery, with long refectory tables and a menu to suit both fussy eaters and gourmet diners at fantastic prices.
Coast Wonderful authentic Vietnamese restaurant in the centre of Edinburgh.
Though small, the food is superb and great value.
Run by a young woman from Saigon so you can be sure of its authenticity.
No drink licence yet but its BYOB with only £1.50 corkage fee.
Just off Morrison Street, a stone's throw away from Haymarket Railway station.
We nearly missed this place, finding it only when we walked past it when there were two policemen eating their dinner.
It's simple, tasty and cheap.
The service is excellent and the food is wholesome.
Best value for price and quality of food of all the places we eat at during our week's stay.
It's a funky and friendly place with really delicious food.
Staff are genuinely interested in their customers and make you feel at home and provide excellent food.
I had a really good steak from their great menu.
Is tucked away down a little road called Wellington Street.
It is the best seafood restaurant.
The prawns were the size of crayfish and really delicious.
There was a great wine list and the whole evening was tied together by very friendly staff and a great manager who kept us laughing all night.
The price was very good for such gourmet food.
Perfect atmosphere.
Homemade Tarte de Poreau (Vegetarian) provided a meal in itself for a hungry skier.
Delicious.
There was even a non-veggie version!
Exceptional find for frustrated veggies in France!
Here you can chose from a range of sit down meals and enjoy a fantastic view of the surrounding slopes.
If it is a bit nippy, warm up with Sopa de Grazalema (Grazalema soup, a broth with chorizo and pieces of bread).
Next, my favourite paté de perdiz (Partridge paté) and then if you really want a feast a revuelto (scrambled egg) with seasonal veg (mushroom, asparagus, etc) and a meat of your choice (we opted for the beast of a leg of lamb, which could feed an army, not just two people!) I really recommend heading 20 minutes away from the city to La Puebla del Río to feast on their speciality arroz con pato (rice with duck).
There are many restaurants that serve it, but the locals love the riverside, family-run El Rezón.
The dish costs €8 per head and comes served in a cazuela (casserole dish) with your very own ladle.
If you are rather peckish try the camarones con pimiento asado y huevo frito (tiny shrimps with roasted peppers and fried eggs) or mejillones rellenos (filled mussels) for starters.
Nothing in Saas Fee is cheap, they will soon be charging for breathing.
The resort sure is stunning though, especially when you find little places like this.
On the way down from a hard day's riding, pop into the Gletschergrotte.
It's a small restaurant/ bar on the way down.
They serve well priced drinks and nice but not budget priced meals.
I would recommend getting a nice beer or gluewine or two, before riding down to the village.
Just be careful of pisters as the runs may have closed while you have been enjoying your beer!
Perfect little pizza place which also serves up local snack food but this is fast food that tastes out of this world.
I rode over from Zermatt for the day I found this place, desperate for food I went into the village to find substance at a reasonable rate.
I walked past this super small shop which had a large queue I decided to find out why it was so busy ...
after a 10 minute wait I was served the best pizza I have ever tasted.
The only downside was it was so cheap I felt I was robbing them.
I see why it was so busy.
Its not easy to find, and of course you have to take your board/ skis off to get to it, but trust me its worth it!
A lively, buzzing local restaurant in Vedado that does good pizzas and has – of course – great live music.
Just a block from the Hotel Nacional, during the afternoons Sofia attracts a nice combination of locals sharing a bottle of Havana Club and visitors drawn in by the infectious sounds.
The service is not the fastest, so best just to order a drink and relax.
Atmospheric outdoor bar/restaurant on Calle Obispo, not far from the Parque Central.
The food is nothing to rave out, but a great band and draught Bucanero in huge tankards more than make up for it.
Location: Calle Obispo, a couple of blocks from La Floridita.
Europe's largest foodmarket is a riot of colour and sensations.
Don't miss Bar Pinotxo with its charming owner.
Visit the Vatican and the eat here.
Off the tourist track and a short walk away.
Fantastic dining with great rustic food and wonderful atmosphere.
Via Andrea Doria, 55, 00192 Roma, Italy Fine-dining restaurant and cocktail bar.
Fabulous food, cocktails and staff.
Best fine dining I've had in a while.
This place is a gastronomic delight.
Great food, beautifully presented, fantastic service and the wine list just superb!
Located in a palazzetto, the interior is just stunning.
I think this restaurant is new, this was my first visit.
It is directly opposite the Zoo.
I went there early in the evening for what I hoped would be a quality steak.
Having eaten in most of Edinburgh's well known steakhouses I consider myself a good judge of quality.
The Porterhouse didn't disappoint with a perfectly cooked sirloin in beautiful surroundings.
The atmosphere was excellent and we recieved a complimentary bottle of red as we'd had to wait a few minutes for a table.
Nice touch!
Standing proud on the hills outside Turin we found the chicest of contemporary art, beautifully presented in a restored 17th century palazzo originally built for the Savoiardi family.
The exhibitions are very, very cool, and the building is a wonder of old and new architecture, fused together with lashings of Italian ‘eleganza’.
Go in the evening to combine your visit with the breathtakingly expensive Combal.
Zero, voted one of the top ten life changing restaurants in the world, apparently, presenting a feast as experimental as the art next door.
Best seafood on the planet, straight from the Atlantic coast of Galicia.
I went to this restaurant for a very special occasion (my now fiancé proposed to me!) It was amazing.
I had never even heard of Georgian cuisine, but it's really not so different from french style food.
However, the cool part of the restaurant was the awesome ambiance.
It was huge for a Parisian restaurant and you could just feel the history in the details of the walls and art, even the old wooden tables.
I'm telling you, if you want to spend a little more for a special occasion, this is definitely a place to keep in mind.
We ate so much food, but it was paced well so we didn't feel like pigs.
The waitstaff were very kind even though our English wasn't the greatest.
And everyone clapped when he got down on one knee!
:):) So that's my story, I hope someone else sees this and is maybe inspired for a little special night of their own - I just had to share!
Full English Breakfast at a golf course set alongside the River Severn with lakes adjacent.
Picturesque river valley overlooking golf course.
Bring your binoculars to view the buzzards and wild birds.
Patio and conservatory provision depending on the weather.
Kazimierz is the old Jewish quarter of Krakow.
With its labyrinthine streets and serene synagogues, the area evokes a blend of melancholy and hope - an inspiring literary place.
Hidden behind the crumbling facades of pre-war architecture are some of the city's most exquisite bars and restaurants.
Of particular note, is the Alef, a kosher restaurant that was regularly frequented by Steven Speilberg during the making of Schindler's List.
A traditional band plays Klezmer music whilst Borscht is served piping hot.
The decor captures a place and time history has almost forgotten.
A place to escape and to reflect, Kazimierz is a truly inspirational place.
A restaurant and a romantic place, nestled among the trees, and creekside, organic foods, half way up Topanga Canyon between Malibu and the San Fernando valley.
A place to get away from hectic Los Angeles and enjoy an unforgettable meal Right in the city centre, it is an unpretentious, affordable pleasant restaurant.
It is one of those places where food matches space and space matches food.
It is all one single coherent attractive concept.
Their lentil sausages are great.
Amedros was quite a haven for us while in Istanbul, since most places seem to be either cheap kebab joints or pricey designer restaurants.
Though just off the touristy Divan Yolu, it is a delightful bistro.
Very friendly, multilingual and efficient staff, nice modern design and delicious Ottoman influenced food.
These dishes include lamb in a sauce made from pomegranate syrup, chicken served on a bed of rice with almonds, apricots and saffron, courgettes stuffed with minced lamb - yum.
There are also various intriguingly cooked steaks, the usual pasta etc, but the Ottoman food is the best.
Reasonable prices, considering that wine in Istanbul costs.
Two starters, two mains, a beer and two glasses or wine came to about 44 quid.
You can spend far more in this touristy area for far less.
Next time I'm going to try the Cappadocian stew cooked in a clay pot and brought to the table aflame - it seems a favourite.
Hoca Rüstem Sokak 7 just off the Divan Yolu tourist street in Sultanahmet, and near the Sultanahmet tram stop.
This is a really cool restaurant in Hamburg that's really worth visiting just to see how the food is delivered to your table - it only opened a few months ago and is a good reason to venture over to the other side of the river.
You have to order your food through a touchscreen at your table and then all your food is delivered to you spiralled rails, on a small tray with wheels!
The food is good and there is plenty of it.
We ordered tons of food because the portions looked so small in the pictures when we were ordering but don't be fooled by them.
This is a great winter walk with some good food at either end and a bit of optional shopping in the middle.
If you start at The Plough on Northfields Avenue they serve a really great cup of coffee.
Since a much needed refurbishment a few years ago they have evolved into a warm and welcoming gastro pub with an extensive menu from naughty nibbles to fab desserts.
Head down Northfield Avenue where you will find some smaller boutique shops perfect for Christmas gifts and stocking fillers.
Turn through Lammas Park and enjoy a little open space, perfect for a frosty day in Autumn or Winter.
At this point you can turn off at Beaconsfield Road and then turn right at St Mary's Road for the Red Lion pub.
If you want a longer walk then continue through Walpole Park with its beautiful trees and flowers.
You may be lucky enough to see a flock of lovebirds that occasionally brighten up the suburban sky, since someone released a pet bird or two many years ago.
You can exit the park on St Marys Road, next to Ealing Studios.
The Red Lion was very popular in the Fifties and Sixties with Britain's top comedy actors popping in for a pint between 'takes'.
It now serves a splendid Sunday roast (pricey but worth it) and a vast array of home cooked British food, fish and chips, pie and mash etc.
It also boasts a good range of ales and an enclosed garden.
The Kirkstile Inn, Loweswater, is tucked away in the West Cumbrian fells and sandwiched between two lakes, which means when it comes to pre- or post-pub lunch walks there are endless choices.
The wellie brigade (young and old) have lots of lakeside rambles to choose from.
Loweswater has a lovely old wood on its shore.
Awash with bluebells in May, at other times you can potter along the paths looking out for deer and red squirrels and hunting for the hidden waterfall.
Crummock Water is also surrounded by a great mix of old trees and has countless paths to explore.
There are becks to guddle in, caves to jump out of, footbridges to run across, a stone boathouse to picnic beside and lots of shingly beaches to swim from.
For the walking-boot band there are fells all around.
One of my favourites is Kirkstile’s beer garden, it challenges you to give it a go as you tuck into your slow-cooked Lakeland lamb.
A short, sharp, and in parts slightly scrambly, ascent up the front takes you to the summit from where you can check out the rest of the Lake District before heading down a more gentle path off the side and along a track which delivers you back to the pub.
Done and dusted within an hour, a friend and I once did this between our main course and pudding at the pub.
But it’s not all location, location, location when it comes to The Kirkstile: it has its own brewery (check out The Kirkstile Gold) and the food’s fantastic.
Located in the town hall square, this restaurant is seen as one of the better establishments in Kaunas.
Yet to UK pockets this is not at all an expensive establishment.
We paid 63 Lt for two starters and mains.
The restaurant itself resembles a Medieval manor house.
When we were there in November the menu included roe deer sausage, wild boar as well as game.
Fish was also on menu.
It's only a tiny place near the Thistle Barbican among a row of small shops.
Me and a few friends used to come here on a Friday night after a few of pints in the white lion round the corner.
The staff don't know too much English but it's a pleasure watching them cooking the food on the gas rings in the back.
The food is always good with a wide selection.
For a takeaway its one of the best.
Quite close to the university.
The Kashmir is not the most attractive of curry houses.
However they do serve an excellent curry at a price that even a student can afford.
You have a choice of two doors.
One to the slightly more presentable ground floor, the other to the larger and more basic basement restaurant.
There may be better Indian restaurants in Bradford, but when it comes to quality, quantity and value for money this place is hard to beat.
A really fabulous, family run, fish restaurant downstairs in South Parade.
One of Bath's hidden gems.
This 'gastronomic space' is in fact on the tiny side - only 12 people can squeezed in to sit on high chairs round the narrow and high table.
The sense of exclusivity is quickly confirmed when food and wine arrives.
The tasting menu has so many small courses that I lost count, the wines are from small producers and excellent matches for the food.
Courses are 'announced' on the discreet flat screens at either end of the table.
The price is around €40 per person all included, which must count as one of the great bargains in this city.
It is tucked behind the main market of the old city on a back street.
The market itself is closed at night.
I was in Edinburgh for the festival, and oh boy was this place full of fun and all free.
I stayed for two weeks and almost every night would end up there.
They have live music and very delicious food ...
but I think what made this place shine for me was the friendly staff.
It is an Irish bar and you sense that throughout - be it the traditional design of the place, or Irish bar staff, or the fresh soda bread that you can have for lunch.
Nearest station: Edinburgh Waverley Morocco as a country is the most culturally rich place I've ever visited and more specifically Marrakech.
Both Ryan Air and Easy Jet fly direct from many UK airports and flights are very reasonably priced.
I'd recommend staying a week or more here and checking in to one of the many Riad's within the Medina.
By doing this you will almost immerse yourself in Moroccan culture and way of life; it never ceases to amaze me.
I'd start by exploring your neighbourhood and meeting some of the locals.
Hello (Salam), Goodbye (Beslama), Please (Afak) and Thank You (Shukran) will always go a long way as many people only speak the local dialect, not English or French.
Ask the owner or manager of your Riad where the local Hammam baths are; they are well worth a visit!
Some may offer a massage for en extra few Dirham.
Before starting to haggle in the Souks it may be worth talking to other tourists and staff at the Riad about prices to expect to pay for goods.
Shopkeepers will always try to take you for a ride - don't give in too easily - if the price is too high for you, walk away, they'll soon run after you.
Be sure to spend plenty of time in the Souks, especially in the evening as everything lights up - it almost seems magical.
Don't forget to enjoy a freshly prepared meal in the stalls at Djemaa el Fna and to take in the various forms of street entertainment.
Djemaa el Fna transforms into a vibrant hub at night for both local people and tourists.
As for things to do, I personally recommend visiting the El Badi Palace and the Saadien Tombs - all for a bit of local history.
The Majorelle Gardens are also well worth a visit, I'd go in the morning when it's slightly quieter.
There is a cafe there, but prices are rather steep, so take water and a snack.
If you have the time to explore outside of Marrakech, take a Taxi (approx 1 hr) to the waterfalls at Ourika Valley.
Wear sensible shoes and hire a guide when you get there.
As for Cafes, Restaurants and Bar's here are my top 3: Cafe Bourgainvillea - situated within the souks, perfect for afternoon tea and very reasonably priced.
Cafe Arabe, is a restaurant just a bit further on and serves delicious food.
After your meal, sit up on the rooftop terrace and enjoy views across the city.
Expect to pay prices similar to those in the UK.
African Chic, is cocktail and lounge bar in the Gueliz - the new part of the city.
Most evenings they have a great live band playing, it's perfect to enjoy a classy evening.
All that's left to say is to enjoy it.
You won't forget the Marrakech experience in a hurry!!
I recommend this city blog because it not only brings to attention good places to eat, but also the neighbourhoods in which they're located, which are usually left out of the guidebook.
The photos in this blog simply make your mouth water.
What's more, the information is incredibly detailed and the guy is really helpful whenever anyone posts a question.
The same applies to other parts of his blog which focus on West-Central Japan as well as Italy, Central Europe and Canada.
Cafe Jospehine is a very restful bar-cum-restaurant next to the water and only that is decked out like a library.
Very ornate and luxurious, yet less expensive than most bars in the city centre, good bar staff who serve coffee the traditional Dutch way with a glass of water with ice and a shot of rum with cream.
My local in Rotterdam and former favourite student haunt Oostplein, metro Oostplein.
It's a restaurant with creative and modern Mediterranean cuisine, with weekly fresh and seasonal menu.
The wine list is interesting and un-expensive, and the non-pasteurized fresh Svijany beer from a small brewery in Czech Republic is simply fantastic.
It's definitely worth trying it!
A friendly restaurant and bar, Moby's overlooks Ganges Harbour and serves fresh seafood, and other delights, entertainment most nights and a great place to try BC's best Ceasar (the cocktail) or the salad, I will always remember the view and a plate of steamed mussels.
Take the TGV from Paris (or hop on less green but slightly quicker flight from Gatwick) to the capital of Languedoc-Roussillon - a city where eating well, drinking local wine and relaxing seem to take priority.
You'll want a good day or two to explore the dizzying warren of medieval streets, mostly car-free, in the miraculously preserved old town (known as 'l'Ecusson').
I lost count of the hidden squares complete with fountains, cafés, quirky boutiques and restaurants; you could spend hours just watching the world go by - or a small fortune on chic Christmas presents.
If you're after culture, there are plenty of churches to discover and the impressive and recently renovated Musée Fabre, as well as regular festivals (and Christmas market) in the nearby Place de la Comédie, the heart of the city that constantly teems with life.
For tea, the prettiest spots are around the Eglise Saint-Roch (pronounced "Saaa-Rock"), or the Place de La Canourgue, where a café/restaurant called Le Comptoir de l'Arc was peopled by the fashionable but (relatively) unpretentious.
For dinner, a great little Japanese restaurant called Mayumi Izakaya is tricky to find, but well worth it for simple, fresh sushi.
Best of all is the twice-weekly organic market (Marhcé des Arceaux), where the finest breads, cheeses, honey and other local produce made me wish for a portable fridge and a larger luggage allowance.
Few small cities have perfected the art of living quite like Montpellier: the inhabitants seem to know instinctively what's worth hanging on to, and yet nothing's preserved in aspic.
An ancient town full of young, open-minded people, new shops, fast trams and that indefinable French knack of making everything look effortless.
In the heart of the trendy neighbourhood of El Born just minutes away from the chaos of Las Ramblas you will find this gem of a pizzeria run by a group of young friendly Argentinians.
The offering consists of a wide variety of delicious crusty deep base pizza by the slice made with quality ingredients.
I recommend the pineapple and bacon and anchovy and tomato.
They also have savoury tarts and empanadas.
Each item costs a very reasonable €1.80.
If you feel like something sweet they have a range of typical Argentinian desserts that are worth a try.
The place is quite small, catering mainly to the locals and is usually always packed- a good thing since pizza is always fresh.
If the weather is obliging you can get take away and have it on one of stone benches outside.
Standard fare but cheap and popular with locals.
Ideal for people on a budget wanting to have a sit down meal with some drinks.
The best restaurant we found in Split.
Very nice setting and friendly staff.
Great quality Croatian/Mediterranean food at very reasonable prices.
Cost us 245 KN (£30) for 1 starter, 2 mains, 1L of wine & cappucinos to finish.
The food is standard fare but also standard prices.
However the reason for the tip is that the setting for the restaurant is wonderful, especially sitting out al fresco in the summer.
Possibly the most amazing restaurant I've ever been to, anywhere.
Evocative and uber-cool, the French-influenced food and wine is superb, as is the service.
I vowed when I left with my business colleagues that I would one day return with my wife and kids ...
and one day I will!
We walked pass the Moon one night and were lured by the Vietnamese deco and antique look of the restaurant.
We were then welcomed by friendly staff who kindly went through the menu.
We decided to go for the set menu one.
The food is brilliant and served in reasonable portion.
We thoroughly enjoyed the spring roll and tuna coated in tamarind sauce.
All for $7.5 per person!
For drink we went for tropical storm and i must say it's amazing.
This restaurant offered a great value set 2 course lunch for EUR15: we had salmon mousse followed by rabbit and spaghetti, with local beer from the Half Moon brewery.
Very friendly and good service.
This was a great family run atmospheric restaurant deliberately sited off the main square on Goezeputstraat.
We had a delicious cote de boeuf together with starters, wine and port for EUR95, and the best frites of whole holiday.
This was a genuine place where the owner served you, took his time and treated you like real people, not tourists on a conveyor belt.
Highly recommended Bar/restaurant in heart of Kreuzberg since mid 19th century.
It became famous for its confectionery, so much so that cakes were sent to New York in the 1920s via the Hindenburg airship.
It is now a bar and restaurant with German/ international food.
A secluded tranquil haven - almost taking a step back in time, except that the food and furnishings are modern and stylish.
The hospitality directly from the owners is awesome, and the wine cellar is fantastic - a walk-in refridgerated room!
Eat from the set menu every night and you will not see the same food twice and you will not leave an empty plate.
Yum!
Austins, the world's oldest department store, is a stunning building located in the Diamond, square at the very heart of the city centre.
It is well worth popping into.
It is a quaint, in many ways, old fashioned kind of store but with top of the range goods in every department.
Best of all is the Roof Top Restaurant on the third floor with wonderful views over the city.
I had a gigantic scone, butter, jam and a mug of coffee for an amazing £1.60!
Later I went back for lunch and had the lunchtime special.
A main course, pudding, and a pot of tea or a coffee for £4.95, with good big portions.
It was very busy!
A wonderful mix of Derry ladies of a certain age, businessmen, mothers and toddlers.
I staggered out after lunch and managed to cross to the benches in the square where I sat in the sun to let it all digest before tackling the walls of the city!
Great restaurant serving Indian and Singaporean fusion cuisine.
The portion sizes are absolutely huge.
We had two starters and two mains one night and could not finish half the food.
We should have watched the locals as they shared starters and mains.
Excellent value and excellent food.
There are two Mirchi restaurants in Berlin.
Additionally the sister restaurant Amirt serving Indian food is also one we'd recommend.
Good solid pizzeria in Berlin.
Very good value in nice surroundings.
Cost us €20 for a large margharita (that we customised with our shared starter) as well as drinks.
By the looks of it a very popular place.
Uncle Ho's is a small Vietnamese restaurant tucked away on a quiet street off the busy square in the middle of the tourist district of Quito.
Locals call it home and for good reason.
You won't find better food such as Pho and traditional Vietnamese dishes anywhere else in South America.
The Irish expat owner makes sure that no one leaves without having some fun and keeps his regulars happy with music, movie, and sports nights complete with drink specials nightly.
If you're travelling in Ecuador make sure you visit Uncle Ho's before heading out to the Galapagos or jungle.
It's a restaurant on the mountain above Alcossebre.
You pass it on the way up to the white Ermita Santa Lucia chapel that can be seen at the top from the town below.
Very good food and the staff also speak good English for those whose Spanish isn't so good.

THESE days, when waiters bring out a cake with candles and sing “Happy Birthday” to a customer, most other diners barely lift their heads. It’s hard to get anyone to sing along, even those at the birthday person’s own table.
Related
Quick Bite | Hudson Valley: A Week of Prix-Fixes Aplenty (March 6, 2011)
Times Topic: Westchester Dining
Enlarge This Image
Suzy Allman for The New York Times
A Cannolo
Not so at Anna Maria’s Italian Restaurant in Larchmont. Most diners seem to know Anna Maria Santorelli, the chef and owner, who spends a lot of time in the dining room, schmoozing. People chat across the intimate space, which seats about 40 in happy proximity to one another. And when one diner is being sung to, as happened on a recent evening, the whole restaurant joins in with lyrics and applause.
That is partly because of the feel of the place, which is unpretentious and comfortable, painted an improbable red and pink with lots of personal photos and sayings like “La Dolce Vita” and “Celebrate Life” hung on the walls. But it is also a result of the cooking, which at its best produces soul-sustaining Italian-New York comfort food.
Rigatoni Bolognese was thick and meaty, with a terrific tomato sauce that tasted as if it had been slow-cooked for hours. So too the spaghetti with hearty but tender beef meatballs. Dishes that are often greasy or too sweet were carefully prepared. They included an appetizer of fried calamari that was light and crispy, and another appetizer, eggplant parmigiana, made with plenty of layers and just the right ratio of vegetable, sauce and cheese. Grilled hanger steak was juicy and served with an earthy brown sauce and nicely sautéed broccoli rabe.
There’s some daring from the kitchen, which produced a wonderful special of polenta with wild mushrooms and spicy sausage on a recent evening. Veal martini came with a hearty dose of lemon squeezed on top, a sharp and welcome counterpoint to the crispy parmigiana cheese and white wine. Lemon, bracing arugula and sweet balsamic vinaigrette brought drama to the mild chicken and mozzarella cubes in the pollo capricciosa, which can be boring if not done right.
Some dishes could have used a little more of that oomph. The braised rabbit barely registered, and it came with a creamy polenta that did nothing to raise the taste level. The tilapia, though prepared with olives and capers in a marinara sauce, had too little flavor. And though a recent salad special of roasted beets with mesclun and goat cheese was satisfying, most of the salads were nice palate clearers, not substantial explorations of the category.
But Ms. Santorelli knows how to do sweet dishes. Her recent special of pumpkin mascarpone ravioli — fat and yielding — came in a wild-mushroom brown sauce that kept the entree from becoming a dessert. And her desserts are uniformly delicious. They include a subtle migliaccio (ricotta semolina pie); smooth panna cotta; fresh cannoli; and rich, soft brownies served with vanilla ice cream.
Born in Naples, Italy, and raised in Brooklyn since she was 10, Ms. Santorelli herself is, well, sweet. She is clearly passionate about her work. She has cooked for several New York City mayors. One, Rudolph W. Giuliani, named her not only executive chef but also chief administrator of Gracie Mansion, in part as a nod to her way with people.
Ms. Santorelli appeared in January on the Food Network cooking competition “Chopped,” coming in second after she cut her hand, limiting her. “You’ve got some spirit,” one of the judges said. It’s that spirit that makes Anna Maria’s so appealing.
•
Anna Maria’s Italian Restaurant
18 Chatsworth Avenue
Larchmont
(914) 833-0555
annamariasrestaurant.com
WORTH IT
THE SPACE A sweet, quirky and welcoming box of a room done in reds and pinks with lots of family photos scattered around — except in the pretty bathrooms, where photos of Sophia Loren (in the men’s room) and Ms. Loren with Marcello Mastroianni and other men (in the women’s room) dominate. Wheelchair accessible.
THE CROWD Mostly couples and groups of friends. Lots of chatting across tables and with the owner-chef, who spends a lot of time in the dining room.
THE BAR Thirteen predominantly red, mostly Italian wines by the bottle, from a $29 Chianti to a $90 Brunello di Montalcino; $7 to $8 for a limited offering of wines by the glass. Mixed and soft drinks available.
THE BILL Entrees from $22 to $30. Major credit cards accepted.
WHAT WE LIKED Roasted beets with mesclun and goat cheese (special), fried calamari, eggplant parmigiana, polenta with sausage and wild mushrooms (special), baked clams; rigatoni Bolognese, spaghetti and meatballs, pumpkin mascarpone ravioli (special), veal martini, chicken capricciosa, hanger steak; migliaccio, tiramisù, panna cotta, cannoli, brownie with vanilla ice cream.
IF YOU GO Open Tuesday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Closed Monday. Reservations recommended on weekends. Street parking only.
RATINGS Don’t Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don’t Bother.
Four stars, for extraordinary, is the highest accolade a critic for The New York Times can award a New York City restaurant. Seven restaurants have that honor: Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s Jean Georges, Eric Ripert’s Bernardin (pictured above), Masayoshi Takayama’s Masa, Thomas Keller’s Per Se, Daniel Boulud’s Daniel, Danny Meyer's Eleven Madison Park and Del Posto, owned by Joseph Bastianich, Lidia Bastianich and Mario Batali.
Here are excerpts from the most recent reviews. Below them are the complete reviews.
Del Posto
Del Posto opened in 2005 on a wind-swept corner of that grim Manhattan neighborhood that is neither Chelsea nor the meatpacking district, in the shadows below what is now the High Line park. The restaurant’s owners, Joseph Bastianich, Lidia Bastianich and Mario Batali, and its chef, Mark Ladner, envisioned a temple to Italian cooking to match any ever built to honor a European cuisine in New York, a 24,000-square-foot palazzo of mahogany and marble devoted entirely to the pleasures of Italian food and customer satisfaction.
Five years later Del Posto is that and more, a place to sit in luxury and drink Barolo, while eating food that bewilders and thrills — an abalone carpaccio to start your meal, perhaps, and absolutely a celery sorbetto to end it, as well-played Gershwin and Kern tinkle in the background. — Sam Sifton, Sept. 29, 2010
Eleven Madison Park
Eleven Madison Park, which opened in 1998, now ranks among the most alluring and impressive restaurants in New York. It has reached this pinnacle because its principal owner, the indefatigable Danny Meyer, made a key move in 2006, bringing aboard the chef Daniel Humm, and because together they decided - out of pride, it seems to me, more than any commercial calculation — that this restaurant could and should shine as brightly as any other.
It already had the setting: that theatrically tall, marble and nickel-walled hall in the old Metropolitan Life Building, with grand windows onto the verdure of Madison Square Park. It already had a deep, broad wine list.
It just needed a bit more polish in its service and a lot more sparkle in its food. Over the last three and a half years, it has received precisely that. — Frank Bruni, Aug. 12, 2009
Daniel
Daniel was always fancy; now it’s genuinely gorgeous, too. And that’s almost reason enough to reaffirm the four stars the restaurant was awarded by William Grimes in The New York Times in 2001.
But the contemporary French menu and the service make their own contributions, usually measuring up to the extremely high standards the restaurant has established. All in all Daniel remains one of New York’s most sumptuous dining experiences. — Frank Bruni, Jan. 21, 2009
Jean Georges
Eating is seldom this absorbing, this bracing. To lend needed excitement to beef tenderloin, some foie gras had been placed on top. But the crucial, less predictable flourish was a rhubarb foam on top of that. It cut the fattiness of the liver. It snapped the palate to attention. So did a wedge of cured lemon that was strategically placed alongside broiled squab and foie gras in another dish. — Frank Bruni, April 19, 2006
Le Bernardin
Le Bernardin has aged with astonishing grace, more Deneuve than Dunaway, doing what it must to remain youthful without ever making an elastic fool of itself, staying true to its identity while adapting to changing times. Now as before, it is a high church of reverently prepared fish. But more than ever global currents inform and influence what emerges from a kitchen that can no longer be succinctly described as French. — Frank Bruni, March 16, 2005
Masa
Masa, despite its chosen peculiarities and pitiless expense, belongs in the thinly populated pantheon of New York's most stellar restaurants. Simply put, Masa engineers discrete moments of pure elation that few if any other restaurants can match. If you appreciate sushi, Masa will take you to the frontier of how expansively good a single (and singular) bite of it can make you feel. — Frank Bruni, Dec. 29, 2004
Per Se
It is not wondrous 100 percent of the time, and it can be maddening: at moments too intent on culinary adventure or too highfalutin in its presentation and descriptions of dishes, one of which came with a choice of four salts from three continents. To get a reservation may well require a degree of planning and effort that verge on masochistic, and a multicourse, mini-portion extravaganza may well require four hours, which is more time than many diners have or want to spend.
But here is the thing: the return on that patience and that investment is more than a few mouthfuls of food that instantaneously bring a crazy smile to your face and lodge in your memory for days and even weeks to come
HERE at long last is a winning new defense of fine dining: Ai Fiori, in the Setai Fifth Avenue hotel, just below Midtown. The chef and restaurateur Michael White opened the place late last year, with Chris Jaeckle in the kitchen and Ahmass Fakahany down at the bank. It is an emphatic rejoinder to the trend toward farmhouse tables, rustic food and shouting that has so dominated the dining scene in Manhattan at least since the start of the recession.
When one of the country's most respected and leading critics says that this restaurant is 'the best Italian Restaurant outside London' it is time to take them seriously. Britain's love affair with Italian food is a cause célèbre of long standing and shows no signs of waning, so it is always welcome news when somewhere like San Carlo sets out to reach for the skies. Located in the heart of Birmingham, San Carlo is well suited to catch both day and night time business, and the menu reflects this. There are 147 different dishes, plus blackboard specials, offering snacks, meals, celebrations, all in true Italian style, dishes that bring Italy into the very centre of life in Birmingham.
The stylish Piatto, situated in Ladypool Road, Birmingham, is popular in the area for its authentic Italian cuisine. The classy interior is done up in dark brown and white, with well laid out tables and large floor to ceiling windows that make the dining area bright and airy. Piatto's Italian chefs ensure they use quality ingredients from around the world and where possible from Birmingham, to create fresh dishes all from scratch. Appetizers of salads, mushrooms cooked in garlic butter and garnished with mozzarella cheese; and smoked salmon with prawns and Marie Rose sauce help set the stage for the main course. Pizza, pastas such as the chef's special risotto al pollo of Italian rice with chicken and fresh greens; a choice of grills that could include sirloin steak; strips of chicken breast with peppers, and a platter of mixed fish that delights lovers of seafood can be had as mains.
For years, this posh Chelsea address was synonymous with high-end modern French cuisine: as Aubergine, it was Gordon Ramsay’s training ground, & later it thrived with William Drabble in the kitchen. Following the recent closure of the purple-hued Gallic grandee, 11 Park Walk has re-emerged waving the Italian tricolore. Its new incarnation touts flexibility, so drop by for a plate of homemade pasta (perhaps saffron pappardelle with pig’s cheek, chestnut tagliatelle or Sardinian malloreddus with artichokes & bottagra), or sample a leisurely dinner from the seasonally tweaked, regionally inspired menu. Traditional antipasti of cotechino with lentils or burrata with Sicilian caponata could give way to ‘black-ink’ cod with courgette purée, braised stinco d’agnello with mash, or venison with wild mushrooms & milky polenta. For afters, homemade Nurri panettone with zabaglione provides a suitably patriotic finish.Lots of variety on this menu. Order the bruschetta appetizer! Chicken marsala was a winner as well. Nice wine selection, good service even on a holiday night without reservations. Atmosphere is a bit casual for the price point.
We were in town for a conference and went to this restaurant on the advice of our hotel staff. Best chicken marsala we've had but best part of restaurant was Tonya, our server, and the rest of the staff. Despite being very busy, she made us feel special and we both remarked that if we lived in San Francisco this would become our favorite restaurant. Definitely neighborhood feel with charming, friendly & hospitable service. Loved it.
Despite my early evening arrival there was a wait for tables. The restaurant has a prime location near Union Square. As I was on my own they managed to seat me immediately. The place looks like nothing special from the outside but once your in you're instantly hit by a warm and friendly atmosphere.
I had a small salad to start and a salmon entree which were excellent with half a bottle of Pinot Grigio. 
The Italian waiters were extremely friendly and when I finished my meal I was really impressed because I hadn't quite finished my wine and despite there being a wait for tables they made a point of telling me to take my time.
Very impressed and will definitely be returning next time I'm in San Francisco.Walking around town and just happened to come across this place and was suprised. I was a little reluctant because its in an area surrounded by shopping so I assumed it was a tourist trap. although there were plenty of tourist in there I thought the food and service was excellent.
My partner and I ate here in March at the recommendation of the hotel concierge and enjoyed ourselves immensely, with great service, excellent food, and certainly not feeling rushed though they were busy. Because of our previous experience, I returned while in town for business and once again had a fantastic dinner. I went early (before 7pm) and even though the Giants were playing the atmosphere was quiet and the service crazy fast. Enrique was my server and was fast with recommendations which ended up being even better than my first visit! I recommend going a bit early for dinner as the service is surprisingly fast without sacrificing quality. I had something different than the last time, so I can feel fairly confident that most anything on the menu that sounds good will be worth ordering. The staff made we feel welcome and attended to, which is very important to me as I was dining alone, but thankfully they were not overbearing or annoyingly attentive. My second visit was exactly twice as nice as the first - thank you Puccini & Pinetti! I will be back next time I am in the area.
I love Caesar's Italian Restaurant!! This place is Old School. I've been coming here since I was a little girl. This place is still the BEST Family Style Italian Restaurant in San Francisco. If you are missing some Italian home cooking, you have to come here. 

The 7 course meal reminds me of the big family dinners. You get more than you can handle, but look forward to the next dish. I try so hard to make it to the entree, but by that time - I'm usually full.

I think I wasn't thinking straight when I decided to go all 7 rounds, but I wanted to impress the big guy with a big Italian Dinner without the family dinner, lol. Are you ready? Manga, Manga!!

1.) House Salad with Creamy Italian Dressing

2.) Antipasto Dishes: three bean salad, calamari, salami, potato salad, grilled eggplant. They bring out tons of dishes, pretty quickly the table is covered with them. 

3.) Vegetable Minestrone Soup, my fave - reminds me of my grandma's. Ask for Parmesan, it's necessary. 

4.) Pasta, a side order of Rigatoni with Meat Sauce. I almost couldn't make it through at this point, but I had help. :

5.) Your Main Entree with it's sides! At this point I'm full but ordered the Meat Lasagna. Laine ordered the Chicken Parmesan, the special of the Day. That was good too. My Lasagna was very good, creamy and the meat sauce is really tasty.  I was already stuffed and took the rest to go. The Lasagna was really great the next day. :)

6.) Once you have made it through, you are rewarded with scoops of ice cream. Pick from Raspberry Sherbet, Vanilla, Chocolate or Spumoni. 

7.) And Coffee. We were not really in the mood for coffee, but I always remember the after dinner coffee in my family. I think it's to balance the Food Coma you fall into. 

All of the Family Style Dinners are based on your main entree, from about $25. to $35 per person. Incredible value if you consider the amount of food served
New Year's is about celebrating the old, welcoming the new and cherishing the family.

Caesar's is an old institution that opened its doors to San Franciscans in 1956.  If it is traditional Italian cuisine you want and the famed San Francisco dish, Cioppino, Caesar's is the place to go. http://www.yelp.com/bi... http://www.yelp.com/bi...

I was finally able to try Caesar's when fiance's sister and her husband took us to dinner here for fiance's birthday. The future brother in law is second generation Italian. Caesar's is his Italian parents and "nonna's" (Italian for grandmother) restaurant of choice for family get togethers. 

Fiance's sis whispered as we were sitting down, "you come here for the food and ambiance, not for the service."  Sure enough, Caesar's is packed and loud with multi-generational families--mostly Italians but diverse enough with Asians and other non-Italian families. "Godfather "would have been happy to bring his la famiglia here. 

If you want to practice your Italian, this is the place to do it.  The place was loud with Italian dialects spoken all around us.   Fiance's sis pointed out the staff who are from the old country who barely speak English but has been working at Caesar's for decades.  http://www.yelp.com/bi...

Caesar's is indeed old-school from the decor, immigrant restaurant staff and traditional Italian cuisine.  http://www.yelp.com/bi... The waiters wear black and white tux. http://www.yelp.com/bi... http://www.yelp.com/bi...

As much as I wanted to try the Cioppino, they were not serving it that night.  Future in-laws suggested that we go for the $35 Seven Course dinner. And for $35 per person, you will get plenty of delicious fare to get you stuffed:

1st Course: SALAD of lettuce, tomato and onionwith Italian dressing.

2nd Course: ANTIPASTI of calamari salad, garbanzo bean salad, grilled eggplant (caponata), cured ham, etc.  
*The dishes were fresh and delicious. Future bro-in-law's told us his nonna made these dishes for the family every Sunday. I could dine on these small dishes alone! I could not stop eating the garbanzo bean salad, caponata and calamari salad.

3rd Course:  A small dish of PASTA WITH MEAT SAUCE. 
*I ate around the meat sauce since I am a pescetarian. I would say that the sauce was very flavorful and definitely NOT Chef Boyardee's!

4th Course:  A delicious bowl of  lite MINESTRONE SOUP. 

5th Course:  Choice of main dish. 
*Fiance chose GRILLED LAMB CHOPS which he requested as well-done. It came to him medium rare. He said it was still delicious, not gamey and very tender. http://www.yelp.com/bi...

*I had the GRILLED SEAFOOD PLATTER. My  meal came with a skewer of plump prawns and very tender scallops with spinach and potatoes. As simple as my meal was, it was surprisingly very good! I had to take half of it home since I got stuffed from eating the antipasti,salad and soup. http://www.yelp.com/bi...

6th Course: SPUMONI. 
*You get to choose from their dessert menu but the spumoni was a great way to end this nice Italian dinner.

7th Course: COFFEE

OVERALL:
Service was polite and not so bad. This was a leisurely dinner and you might have to flag your server down once in a while.  They leave you alone but not forget about you. You will still get your water refilled and your dishes on time.  

They even gave my fiance an amaretti flavored cheesecake with a candle in it for his birthday dessert. Rich and delish!

I have traveled to Italy and have had the pleasure to eat well in Rome and the Umbrian region.  Caesar's is indeed authentic, traditional  and old school.  The dishes are not as delicious as what I had in Italy but at Caesar's it is about tradition. The dishes were simple, fresh and light--not the heavy, cheesy, Italian-American that is standard in the US. 

On our way out, fiance's sis spotted BUGIE COOKIES for sale at the counter. She said their nonna made these Italian sweets. I grabbed a couple of boxes for $6 each and gave one to her as a thank you present for the nice dinner treat.  Bugies I found out later are fried dough sprinkled with powdered sugar.  Delicious but not diet food! http://www.yelp.com/bi...

Thanks future sis-in-law and future bro-in-law for a delicious dinner.

3.5 Stars rounding up to 4 for a venue that values family tradition.
I joined my coworkers for a holiday dinner on Dec. 21 at Caesar's and it was outstanding. We all had a wonderful time and being there at the restaurant brought back many happy memories. 

Caesar's is a family restaurant that has been there for decades. I remember going to Caesar's when I was a little kid. It was always good, food was delicious and service outstanding. 

Caesar's is old school Italian American food. If you are looking for something more fancy or upscale, look for it some place else.

Yet if you want a simple meal with basic quality and good service at an affordable price in a down-to-earth yet pleasant ambiance, then Caesar's is the place for you. 

It can get busy. Yet the staff is always helpful and happy to see everyone. Look for the specials for the day. They often can be the best meal deal for your money.
I was taken here for my bday a month ago and really enjoyed the ambiance, the food, the waitstaff so I decided to go back. We sat at the bar and we're greeted by Luigi who made us feel like we had been going there for years. We sat there & decided to order a bite to eat which was ok at the bar. Played the jukebox (great oldies from all my fav's-Dino, Tony, Louis, & Tony). This is definately old school and a great place.
Thanks to Luigi who's hospitality can't wait to revisit.
I really wanted just an Italian "joint" like the ones I remember from my young adulthood in Boston. I loved the Italian Kitchen in Boston's North End that had the best pasta and pizza- and so cheap. The place had red-checked oilcloth tables and old chianti bottles serving as candle-holders.From the outside, Caesar's looks like that kind of place. The exterior of the building is old and frowsy- a shit brown stucco with electrical wiring hanging off it. No windows. The paint on the door a hundred layers deep. 

But it's a wanna-be tony North Beach restaurant with waiters in livery and white linen table cloths. Pretentious- that's what I mean to say. Not to mention pricey. I had a veal scallopini and it was just OK. 

It's not really in North Beach, either, although it's close. It's really more in the wharf area, off by itself.
C'mon Yelpers!  This place is way overrated.  I wanted to love it.  I was quite taken with the visual ambiance - the place looks like it was decorated over a period of time stretching from the 40s to the 70s and not touched since - nice.   It kind of smelled like that, too - not so nice.  The service was very friendly if not entirely competent.  The menu was basic American interpretation of Italian.  The food was pretty boring.
Old school Italian restaurant in a charming way. Went there for a company holiday party. Was impressed as they served 75 people a 4 course meal at once with only few hiccups. Had the steak but could have chosen better.

I'd go back if I was in the area and wanted a no-nonsense meal.
I like the ambiance and staffing (I'd go back just for the staffing) but the food is mediocre, along the lines of the kind of food you get at a hospital cafeteria.  We had veal parmigiana and spaghetti and meat sauce.  Just disappointing since I was hoping I could make this place my local regular joint, some place to get old school Italian like so many Yelpers have claimed - this is not that place.
This place is a big deal in my family. As actually Italians from Italy, this is one of the few places to find the 7-course Italian dinner, done correctly. 

We had my baptism party here. - 1984

my parents had their rehearsal dinner here - 1981

my parents 25th wedding anniversary party - 2006

We had my grandfather's 80th birthday party here - 2009

and there ares so many more I can't remember.

Outside the sign says "Si parla Italiano" (We speak Italian) and they really do. The food is always tremendous. My grandmother who is from Sicily always loves the food here. The olives, salami and everything are not the same stuff from safeway. I don't know where they get it, but I can't find anyone who can cure olives like that. No matter what you order, pasta, meat, whatever. It is always fantastic.

And to tell you what kind of service they have. They helped my mother plan the party for my grandfather. They knew exactly who to get for music. (Who else knows the phone number for a freelance accordion player!?) They knew.

Also, for my grandparent's wedding anniversary one year, without even saying hello - the manger recognized us and brought out a bottle of complimentary champagne and cannolis. Thats not just good service thats people who aim to do right and really care. 

And NO I don't work here or know the owners.
I felt like I was walking into a friends place. Warm greetings and smiles all around from the hostess who btw, remembered my friend Betty's name because she'd called 3 days before for reservations! I was impressed. Then there was our adorable waiter Sal with the Italian accent. Waiters were flying back and forth between the kitchen and their table's!  It was quite a site. I can't say I remember a waiter ever walking quickly let alone running to get orders out. 
So the question, order just that entree, all alone, by itself, with no sides? Or order the 7 COURSE MEAL? That sounds like a lot, and.....IT WAS! A mixed green salad-very fresh. And I like this, as we were eating the salad the march of bite sized plates filled to the brim with Antipasto! A vast assortment of veggie dishes, garbanzo and kidney beans, olives, calamari, fresh mozzarella balls and cherry tomatoes etc, etc, etc. This proved to be fun because you could add these ingredients to your garden salad. 
Then came the fresh prepared to order minestrone. A light tomato broth filled to the brim with chard, carrots, onions and many other vegetables. Next, a pasta with a fresh tomato marinara sauce and ground beef. 
Oh, almost forgot, we barely landed when the iced butter and crusty sourdough bread hit the table! This, I could have made a meal of-the bread that is! 
Well, now we are full, seriously, can't we just get the 6 courses and forget the entree? 
Entrees were pretty standard Italian fare, fresh and well prepared. Top that all off with fresh hot coffee and a choice of spumoni, vanilla or chocolate ice cream. 
The wait staff, prompt, courteous, friendly and omnipresent, yet unobtrusive good combo! Sal granted us a photo op and now we have our evening captured and preserved for the great memories me and my 2 Amiga's will share in our old age!
Except for the missing cloud of cigarette smoke, walking in here is like stepping into an episode of Mad Men.  The food is good, but expensive for what you get.  I love the decor, but the dining is just not up to the prices they're asking.

It's very authentic Italian, but for what you pay, you'd expect a flight to Rome was also on the bill.

Yes, I'm obsessed with the high prices here.  I've eaten at more expensive restaurants, but for the most part, they were worth it.  I don't get the same feeling here.
Don't be confused, this is not a 5 star as it compares to Gary Danko, or Mina, or other fancy places.
This is 5 star because they do standard italian food great.
The bar is welcoming, and reasonably priced.
The food is amazing.  Chicken parm, pasta, fish, whatever. All good.
Option of 7 - course meal is VERY filling, and worth every penny.
Feel like a salad and plate of pasta only, probably about 16-18 bucks..

Tourists: this is a real SF eatery, and tourists come here.  

Locals: you already know it is great, and come regardless of tourists because it is amazing. 

Transplants: not fancy enough for you, but they will gladly sell you a martini that you take 1 sip of, and then leave when you decide you'd rather eat at Delarosa.
I have been coming here for years. There is no other restaurant that is more welcoming from the moment you walk in to the moment you leave. 

As someone whose perspective of Italian food growing up was olive garden. I had a real awakening when I was introduced to my fiances Italian family cooking.

Caesar's completely satisfies even them. Everything I have had here is wonderful. My favorite is always the crab coppiano, which ends up being completely crab, mussels, clams and some broth. Not overly soupy like most places, but just meat. 

They always bring out little plates of complimentary pasta as you wait. Really there is no way to ever leave still hungry. I would suggest the 7 course meal that is around $30...crazy I know.

The servers are very friendly and make sure that you are enjoying everything. The chef even comes out and greets you. 

I love Caesar's!
This is a nice place for italian dinning.   I had the Lasagna and it was authentic in taste.  A couple of glasses of Merlot to wash it down.  Delicious!  The service was great.  The ambiance is very elegant Italian and the prices were very reasonable.  A great date or for a special family celebration type spot.

Im a bit perplexed by the generally positive reviews. I have been wanting to try Caesars since I live a block away, so I finally got takeout last night.  I ordered the veal marsala.

The veal was average, I would say comparable to a very good supermaket prepared veal.

The side pasta was an absolute joke. It was pasta with some bland meat sauce on it, I wouldnt really even call it sauce as it was basically just a little meat put on it. 

The fries on the side were good, but, really, who serves fries with authentic italian??

I wont be coming back and Im wondering if the good reviews are mainly tourists who were trapped into it and thought it was great because its in North Beach so they assume its "authentic."
Nothing special.  Crazy guys behind us and I was surprised by the meat pasta that came as an appetizer for free.  Be aware of the free pasta appetizer with meat sauce when placing your main order.
I love this joint. You eat like a pig for the most ridiculous price ever. I went here with a huge group from work and we all left fat and happy. 

We got the 7 course shin-dig for under $30 for dinner!!!!

You get bread, anipasto, soup, pasta, main dish (your pick), ice cream and coffee to finish....

It's totally little italy and makes you feel like you're eating at someone's house. 

Make reservations or be prepared to wait over an hour!
The food is okay. The service is okay. The people that work there are really nice when you are setting things up, but when the bill comes they are a little different. I had reserved the banquet room for a lunch and I didn't know the exact number, but thought it would be around 30. Well, it ended up being 20 people. They were fine with that until it was time to pay the bill. Then, they said that since I had said 30, although they didn't say there was a minimum, they wanted to charge me for 25. I didn't want to argue in front of my family, so I did it. They just wanted more tip, and I could have had the lunch at a better place, with better food and MUCH better ambiance for almost the same money! What was going to be $36 a person (including tax and tip) +bar and wine, ended up being almost $50 a person! That's just not cool and believe me, I'll find somewhere else next time. It was pouring down rain the day we were there and the place was EMPTY, so they just took advantage of me and my situation.
You want to experience cutting edge Italian food?  Well...you probably don't want to go to Caesar's.

However, if you want to experience an Italian restaurant with that old school vibe and OK food, then this is your kind of place!

I recently came here on a Saturday afternoon to treat my parents to lunch.  They have valet parking at lunch and dinner for only $6, which is a major deal and totally worth it considering the extremely limited parking in the area.

Service was friendly, but the waiters were really busy with two large parties of 20 or more.  Still, we were happy with our cocktails, so it wasn't too much of a problem.

Our meal was perfectly fine...filet of sole (Mom), veal piccata (me - yes, I know it's not PC), and sweetbreads (Dad).  Each of our meals started with a serving of pasta with a meat sauce.  It was bland, but they were trying.  The bread arrived warm, so that was a nice touch.  We had tiramisu for dessert.  Again, OK, but not the best I've ever eaten.

Overall, it's a fun place to go for it's old-schoolness, but kind of expensive for so-so food.  I would give a 2.5, but I'm in a good mood today.  

Oh, be prepared for the noise.   It wasn't even close to being full when we went, but it was crazy LOUD!
If you ever wonder what it was like in your grandpa's lodge, the kind Fred and Barney used to go to get away from Wilma and Betty on "The Flintstones" when they were members of the Royal Order of Water Buffaloes, well, wonder no further. You can live out your fantasies of being the guest of honor at a Rotary Club banquet by coming to Caesar's. the biggest throwback to a 1950's-style social hall that I've ever seen in this city. Quality-wise, the food is definitely at the banquet level. So is the noise level. It's like eating in the middle of Grand Central Station terminal.

"Warehouse" is the first thought I had when I entered the place. They actually had mirrors on the wall that were supposed to look like windows. Curtains were painted on the beams. Naugahyde booths. Paper bibs for the crab legs. All the chintzy touches are here because it's Caesar's, goombah. Jamie W. and I came here on Friday since we didn't feel like waiting at Houston's, and I seem to recall that this eatery was praised on an episode of "Check Please! Bay Area". Granted the recommender was a silver-haired dandy wearing a white turtleneck, but what the hey? He looked trustworthy.

Well, service was hectic. I don't think the hostess ever looked at me as she muttered "How many?" and then looked immediately at her table map (see photo...nice perm!). We both decided to try their seven-course dining extravaganza. I went for the $29 Osso Bucco meal, and Jamie ordered the $25 Ravioli plate. I didn't know the routine, so the waiter just kept coming with small plates. First up was the paltry green salad ladled thick with some kind of creamy dressing. Along with it came a bowl of chickpeas, kidney beans and onions marinated in lemon and olive oil, which I assumed I was supposed to spoon over the salad.

But then he also came with slices of mortadella. Oh, but here comes the cherry tomatoes with mozzarella cheese balls and then a mix of calamari and button mushrooms. No complaints, but we were both getting kinda full from all of it. The steaming minestrone soup came out next in a big silver bowl, which was then ladled into our bowls by the waiter. By the time I dipped my spoon in, he was already back with the penne in ragout sauce. This was getting ridiculous because I didn't have room left for the osso bucco itself. It turns out that wasn't such a bad decision since it just wasn't that good compared to a place like Stelline in Hayes Valley. The meat was rather dried out despite all the chunky tomato sauce poured on top of the shanks.

Only one of the shanks had any marrow, which was a major bummer, and I barely ate two of the three shanks on the plate. Jamie could barely touch his ravioli since it was virtually the same as the penne he just had. Feeling bulimic, I excused myself only to return to see a parfait glass filled with spumoni with the green dye streaked throughout. I licked it up, maraschino cherries and all. Ugh. We were so full I could barely move from the table, Meanwhile, the restaurant was packed with families, senior citizen groups and beer-bellied paisans looking for a little amore. If you want to eat yourself in a coma, Caesar's may fit the bill if your idea of good eats is assembly-line Italiano. 

FOOD - 3 stars...I think Fred and Barney would have liked the chow here if they threw in a brontosaurus bone 
AMBIANCE - 2.5 stars...Kiwanis club chic with the echo chamber of an airplane hangar 
SERVICE - 2.5 stars...automatic pilot would be a generous appraisal 
TOTAL - 3 stars...if quantity trumps all, then go, my porky paisan, go!
Given, I went here for a work event.

Nothing special  - think Capp's Corner with an extra room.  Pretty much the same genre - super old school, autographed Frank Sinatra records on the wall coupled with Dean Martin photos, picnic table cloths, horrible lighting, and that very awkward room flow.

I will admit it was a dinner for maybe 50+ guests, so I expected quality to come down.  But nothing to write home to mom abuot.  

Salad was somewhat old - had the brown along the edges.  The anti-pasta was decent - just plain jane, which included grilled eggplant, olives, tomato salad, mortadella, etc.  But nothing was out of this world.

Ravoli was Chef Boyardee special, but it was decent.  Steak was well prepared - medium rare, good New York Strip.  I was lucky to try some salmon, which was OK.  The chicken piccolo, I hear, was lack-luster.

The only cool thing I thought was the bar.  It had a nice spread.  Felt like Buena Vista Cafe on Hyde street.  Spacy, comfortable, nice bartender.  Can't complain.  So if you're looking for a quick night cap, it's doable.

The waitstaff was wonderful - attentive, quiet, focused.  Barely noticed them at all, but everything was served well.
First off--You don't come here for great Italian food   But, do go for the retro-restaurant experience.  It is so 1960's.  

After doing some work in the city this past Saturday, my husband and I arrived at 6:00 for an early dinner.  The staff was very friendly and we were seated immediately.  (By 6:45, the large dining room was full. Many tables were for 6 or more.)  We didn't eat much, but started with the free plate of penne pasta in a bolognese sauce.  Then, I had the grilled petrale, and my husband had the shrimp and scallop brochette.  Everything was good-not great.  Imagine going to your European grandma's house for dinner.  The ingredients are simple and fresh, the cooking isn't very original, but overall the meal is tasty and satisfying.  The Pinot Grigio wine we ordered was pretty bad. (Again, think of grandma's jug of Gallo wine.)  I wonder about the selection of wine on their wine list. 

I would never recommend this restaurant to anyone under 30 - but do go for the San Francisco old timers ambiance.
This restaurant must be one of my favorites! When people come to San Francisco and ask me where the best place to get some delicious food, I immediately answer with Caesars Italian Restaurant.

As you enter the restaurant, you are immediately greeted by the welcoming employees and seated. The environment itself is very calm and relaxing-- great for a nice dinner after a long day. Not to mention that the restaurant is conveniently located by Fisherman's Wharf where I like to explore the shops and end the day with a nice meal from Caesar's. 

The food there is great although I haven't tried a large variety. I ALWAYS start off with their calamari. Their calamari is by far the best I have ever had-- I even go to the restaurant just to get a taste of their calamari. Following that, I usually order Risotto with mushrooms and even though it is not on the menu, they satisfy my craving by making it anyways. 

I recommend everyone to try this place out-- nice place for birthday parties, dates, or simply a nice night of relaxation.
During a recent lunch, someone asked about authentic cioppinos in the city and only two immediately came to mind:  a) Little Joe's and b) Caesar's.  With this thought firmly in my mind, I gathered some friends for a casual Friday get-together.  It's been a while since I've had the famed Crab Cioppino, served Tuesdays to Fridays.  When reading the specials and the price, I thought the numbers were transposed as it was only $23.00 the last time I had it, but crab is out of season right now so I should have expected it.  Here is what I had:

Appetizer
Manhattan Clam Chowder - This is my preferred version as the New England version (creamy) is more commonly found.  Just the right balance of okra, chopped clams, and potatoes with a tangy flavor.  Great on those cool foggy nights.  - $4.50

Fried Calamari (shared) - Golden brown fried calamari pieces, large chopped rings that came to the table hot.  The flavor was good, but it would have been better if it had a mix of the other pieces (tentacles and such).  The server also forgot to bring either tartar, cocktail, or marinara sauce.  I requested marinara sauce as the squid pieces quickly cooled, hoping that the warm sauce would hi-lite the flavor.  Success.  - $13.00

Pasta - A small plate of rigatoni in a delicious meat sauce comes with every fish or meat entree.  Be sure to generously sprinkle their parmesan cheese on this...  It was so good that we considered asking for an extra side order to share.  - free

Entree
Crab Cioppino - A large heaping bowl filled with mostly dungeness crab pieces, mussels, clams, and calamari in a tomato broth; two large garlic bread slices accompany this order.  Not for diners who expect to exclusively use utensils as you'll need to battle the shells to enjoy the luscious local trademark crabmeat.  The shelling bowl came in very handy as the pile barely fit the bowl for two orders.  - $32.00.

Dessert
Fried Bow Ties (complimentary) - A family style plateful of deep fried batter covered with powdered sugar.  Being stuffed from overindulging on the garlic bread and regular bread, I only ate two pieces.  

The dining room was about 80% full, but their private party room was packed.  The service was very homey, but a bit slow due to the high volume of customers; it was a mix of tourists, couples, local families, and small groups like ourselves.  The servers were good about refilling the glasses, with the minor glitch being the calamari sauce issue.  The bread initially came cold/hard, but, when we requested hot bread, the waiter quickly brought some.  The owner walked the room to make sure everything was okay with all the diners.  
If you get a craving for cioppino, this place definitely delivers, but be prepared to pay for it.
I like the overall vibe of the place, the old bar is cool and it definitely feels like a traditional Italian American family run restaurant.  That said, there are several things that could be improved upon.

To begin with the wine was terrible, which I should have known when I saw the wine list which didn't specify any wines they served by the glass.  Instead it seems they have Costco sized bottles of the all the wines listed (which was an entire page) which they  open and use until it's gone.  I have a hard time believing that they go through all those wines quickly enough to be able to do that.

I ordered the Insalata Caprese, which they for some reason they call Tomatoes with Mozzarella Cheese on the menu.  My sister was thinking of getting it, but was understandably confused considering the odd wording and asked if it was a salad.  I said yes knowing what it's called and knowing that "insalata" literally translates to "salad," not a huge leap.   Our waiter cut me off and said no, it was an antipasto.  I'm sorry if he can't get his head outside of the American "a salad involves lettuce" box but as a waiter he should come to realize that a salad is not defined by the presence of lettuce. 

I have to say the Porcini Fettuccini I got was really good, but considering how many Italian restaurants there are in North Beach alone I'll try another one before going back to Caesar's.
With all the great Italian restaurants nearby, it's hard to find a good reason to come back here.  

My wife and I each had variations on the seven course meal.  On average, . . . everything was really average.  There wasn't really anything to write home about.  The salads and antipasti were fairly workman-like.  The soup was lame.  The pasta course was a small plate of rigatoni with an under-seasoned sauce.  The veal parmigiana was soggy and the sauce was bland.

With so many other fine places nearby like Cafe Albona and Firenze by Night, life is too short for mediocre meals.
Before I go on, 4 words:  Extremely Unauthentic Italian Food.

Came to Caesar's over in SF North Beach just last Friday night.  On Friday nights, there is a lively vibe, at least last Friday night a fortnight from Christmas Eve.  The place was decorated nicely for the holidays and there's a boisterous social energy in the place though the sound a little too loud for me.

The bar had what appeared to be an extremely lively happy hour and what struck me was that everyone there were much older, couples in their 60s and 70s but having what seemed like a great time.  Just as I walked in, some older man was talking to me as if I were his friend for many years before I even knew it!  I wasn't too taken aback.  I mean, who hasn't been warm to complete strangers on a happy hour Friday after drinking for two hours?

The only reason I'm giving this place 3 stars is because the friend I came here with really enjoyed the place because he loves it when they keep bringing in endless amounts of bread and butter.  Also, they goofed when we made a reservation and when we arrived our booth was given to someone who walked in and the gave us complimentary glasses of Chianti to make up for it.  And the Chianti was pretty good.

But I don't rate establishments based on bread or "make-up for the screw up" service.  Things like that make a four star place a five star place.

The service here is fairly reasonable too, though a little shady to me for some reason.  Any place where people assume I am Italian because my name is Tony is usually a suspicious sign that the establishment is a cheap Italian restaurant lacking true quality Italian food.  

I notice that about Italians.  If they act nice to you, they're ripping you off or screwing you over in one fashon or another.  If they act arrogantly or cold around you, they offer quality food that is usually out of this world.  It's like that in Italy too.

In the future, I'll have to hop to hop from one Italian restaurant to Italian restaurant.  The first place where they appear reserved and arrogant, I will sit down and order.

For $40 (including tip):

1.  I had an order of their clam chowder which was actually not bad but it was not Boston style and more of a Manhattan Clam Chowder.  Still not too bad.

2.  The bread and butter was ok.  At least it wasn't stale.

3.  Also included was appetizers,at $6.50 (for my share), we had fried calimari which I thought was nasty.  It was too doughy and tasted as if it had been cooked in grease that was 5 days old.

4. The entree, the most important part of the meal was downright horrible.  I had Lasagne.  How could an Italian restaurant mess up so badly?  What really grossed me out about it was that the mozarella cheese had that ugly melted look as if it melted and then got cold and looked sweaty.  That signals to me that it probably had been microwaved and then had just been sitting there for at least 5-10 minutes.  I only ate half of it and tossed it when I left the place.  It lacked flavor or love or anything that justified the $16 price tag for it.  Very disappointed.

All in all, I left the place thinking: another horrible Italian restaurant in the tourist infested Italian neighborhood.

It's very hard finding good Italian food in the US let alone the Bay Area.  If you find one in SF, please let me know and I'll give it a shot.

This is really about a 2.25 star place but I bumped it up slightly as a courtesy and because my friend enjoyed the place.
Very disappointing. 

The a la carte pasta was penne in a runny meat sauce. Cafeteria food. When the waiter asked me why I didn't eat it, I told him that tomatoes gave me heartburn. He replied "Well, it's a meat sauce" seemingly oblivious that the base of the sauce consists of tomatoes.

I ordered a New York strip steak, and was served a fairly substandard, tasteless grade of beef. I probably could have gone across the street to Safeway and bought a better steak. Rarely have I NOT finished a steak, but I left about a quarter of it when I realized I was choking it down. Whoever categorized this restaurant as a steakhouse needs to be shot.

The atmosphere is kitschy, but you know that when you first walk in. However, the linoleum floors and the lack of any sound baffling on the walls will make for a loud experience when the dining room gets busy. It's even worse when they start turning up the constant drone of Frank Sinatra's Greatest Hits which made me want to tear the speakers out of the wall.

I definitely won't be going back.
The anti pastas and bread, were stale. The soup was very salty and sandy, a mixed Manhattan and New England. I could have eaten better at a diner. There was a lot of food served, from poor to mediocre. I think they're living off of an old reputation. What ever they were back in the day..they are not now. Unless sprinkling oregano and calling it Italian is enough for you, this is hardly authentic Italian. I won't go back.

After our anniversary meal in September we have been regular visitors to Via Roma and ever time they meet our Expectations so we decided to take all the family there for my birthday on Friday and I have to say the service was first class and food was excellent as always, their lovely staff even sang me happy birthday song and took out the icecream with candle which made my night really special. I recommond here as they always go extra mile to please you. 
Been here 3 times before and was not impressed.. the last time was july 2009, so we thought we would try it again Jan 2011.
Well what a DISAPPOINTMENT...... Staff were nice and friendly but very inexperienced, everything is very hurried, hardly finished your starter and you have your main course......
Starter of Parma Ham and Melon looked lovely but when we strated to eat it the Ham was warm and then the Melon felt warm ?? then we touched the plates .....they were HOT !!! not impressed a cold starter served on HOT plates not on !!
Then my husband had Tagliatella with Prawns in a Cream Sauce costing £14.90 and he got 6 Prawns tagliatella and there was not enough sauce ....this is a joke!!
I had Chicken stuffed with Parma Ham and Cheese in a cream sauce... served with a miniscule amont of sauteed potatoes ...........thinking I would get some kind of VEG..... but NO VEG.......!!
I did ask the waiter if my Chicken was supposed to be stuffed with Parma Ham as I could'nt find it, he said it was a thin slice in a pocket in the chicken... I looked it was a very small pocket with about an inch of Ham and very little cheese this cost £12.90 Joke!!
Both dishes were bland . As for the Dessert Menu.... if you like Tiramisu or Ice cream your fine, very poor Dessert Menu and OVER PRICED.
Tables are very close together and too small for 2 people to eat comfortably, Music was far too loud, an Italian Restaurant serving that disgusting bread sticks in a packet is an absolute turn off what happened to nice fresh bread. They used to have a restaurant called Valentinos beside Pitcaple we went there often as it was lovely but this is a complete backward step, they need to pull their socks up....Trouble is there are not enough NICE places to eat in Inverurie so they have become SLACK and LAZY so I'm afraid it is back to Sinclairs for us as they do not rush you out the door and atmosphere is much better and their FOOD is delicious. Will not be going back to Via Roma and would not recommend it to anyone. Very disappointed !!!! We did not complain as we have done before cause nothing has changed so complaints and suggestions are not taken on board. 
I didn't enjoy this place at all. The service was slow (although friendly) and the food was not worth the wait. Disappointing pizza. My partners's pasta was bland. It was extremely busy though (which is why we went in) but we later decided that it was more due to the fact that there is a serious lack of places to eat in the area. 
The food in itself was delicious, can't fault it one little bit and i'm not going to try!
I was disappointed in how little time we got between course though, I know its not exactly a major worry, but you want a little bit of time for the food to settle before the next dish! Also, the plates were cleared after about 30 seconds of finishing eating and the bill was on our table about 15 seconds later.
Too much of a hurry. Italians don't ever rush their food!!
Six of us went to the Via Roma on 8th October `10 and had a really nice time, good food, atmosphere, and staffing. Good value for money. We`ll be going back. 
We had our 10th year anniversary dinner on saturday night and it was simply the best meal we had for a long time, fantastic food and atmosphere and the service couldn't be better, we are all very proud of Via Roma, Keep it up. 
Pull your socks up guys. Back with the family to celebrate a birthday and things are worse than 2 1/2 years ago! Worst Calzone I have ever had. The dough was solid! My wife had Risotto, which was starch on a plate, awful. Well seeing the Italian competition is poor in Inverurie. It's a shame because the menu reads well and the staff are very good. I wish the in-laws would change the venue! 
Unfortunately a mixed bag. On a positive note, all the staff were excellent and deserve high praise as they were extremely attentive and friendly. However, the kitchen didn't manage to maintain this high standard. For a start, portions are inconsistent as they range from average to small (even for the same bloody dish!!) which isn't good enough considering the A la carte prices are in the average to high category. In fact, if I had been picking up the tab myself (father-in-laws treat) the plates would have been returned to the kitchen immediately for rectification. Biggest disappointment was inconsistency with the flavours. Starters, bruschetta pomodoro, tomatoes like turnips, lacking in salt, no balsamic, just very poor and lazy. Unsure if chef has no palate, or using cheap ingredients to save money (or both), but not good enough as I buy nice sweet vine ripened tomatoes myself from the supermaket and I'm a bloody amateur!. Lasagne & Pasta Carbonara, extremely good indeed. Calzone, great flavour from filling, very poor texture of cooked dough (the acid test). So, not sure if this is a restaurant on the way up or way down, but based on this inconsistent performance I get the impression that the lack of competition in the Inverurie area is letting the owner get lazy with the standards. Not bad, but with some attention to detail could be miles better. 
Attentive waiting staff, prompt service excellent food, in a nice warm atmosphere first class.
Was up there for a wedding next day and called in late pm and got a booking for 8.15. Turned up on the dot and got excellent srvice considering the place was full. Food and ambience excellent as was the wine. Everyone in there was very friendly to a couple of sassenachs and we left with a lovely experience of local people. Marco, the boss, was brilliant as were the rest of his staff. Would thoroughly recommend this place. Pitty its such a long way from us in Cheshire.
I recently visited Al Dente with my partner, we were both delighted with the quality of food and service. It is a restaurant which I have passed on many occasions. We are both looking forward to returning as soon as possible. Would recommend Al Dente to everyone in the Leith area looking for authentic good quality Italian food at a good price. 
I was going to look up Al Dente in Trip Advisor, possibly expecting it to be near the middle on the assumption that no one would know about it. Turns out it was deservedly highly placed. My girlfriend and I literally stumbled across it as we walked back from Calton Hill to Leith and were looking for a bite to eat. We thought we'd have to settle for a standard take away but then we saw this place.
Easter Road is not a street in Edinburgh famed for it's cuisine or restaurant culture which is why I found this place all the more special. I thought I had found a wee place that no one else knew about. It has that atmosphere as well, with very attentive, friendly but not overbearing staff. It is the sort of place that one could while away an evening very easily.
The food was superb: I had rabbit. possibly the tenderest rabbit I have ever tasted.
The service was faultless: as I said, attentive and friendly without being overbearing.
The price was good (for Edinburgh): 3 courses & coffee x 2 for £45 ish total.
We have already raved about this place to everyone we know, so thought it high time we raved about it to people we don't know as well. 
Since I discovered this restaurant about a year ago with my partner I haven't stop coming with friends and family as well. It is small and elegant with a great Italian atmosphere and where the host Graziano just makes you feel welcome and relaxed from minute 1 you come in- I haven't seen many restaurants like this around. I always go for seafood when I come here as I know it is always fresh although during the 2 theme nigths I attended (highly recommended) I had some beautiful meet dishes too. Antonelo is an excellent chef, usually comes out to say hi an check all is in order and Gerardo is always very attentive. These guys know how to run a restaurant- hard work, extra friendliness and quality food! Just not to be missed!!!
My friend and I were here recently (November 2010) and liked this place as it was different to other Itlaina restaurants. There was a cosy friendly atmosphere and te service was very nice and friendly. The food was excellent. 
Like a previous reviewer, we also used a voucher for our meal with trepidation after reading some of the other reviews. However fears unfounded as the food and service were very good. We will be returning as I really want a plate of the seafood starter my partner had which was excellent. The pork belly was excellent as well. Looking forward to next visit. 
One of the best Italian meals I have ever had. The staff were very friendly and efficient and the food was excellent.
We visited last night with a certain amount of trepidation after seeing some of the recent reviews as we also had booked under the Groupon deal.This really was unfounded as we had one of our best meals EVER ! Yes the food and service really was that good right from the complimentary bread through to the excellent house wine by the glass.We had the gnocci and mixed seafood for starters and the chicken and bream dishes as mains and all four dishes were gorgeous.The only quibble we had was that we had to rush off to a concert and could not linger over desert and coffee.
We will definitely be back ASAP despite this restaurant being on the wrong (Hibs part of town). 
Please visit this restaurant if you like authentic, beautifully cooked, Italian food. Absolutely superb. Staff were very friendly and there was a cosy and comfortable feel about the restaurant. 
On an overnight stay in Edinburgh we had lost our way whilst seeking a restaurant but stumbled upon Al Dente. A most propitious stumble. The menu was interesting and varied; avoiding the hacknied 'Italian' fare. Food quality was superb and the atmosphere very comfortable. Graziano Spano was the perfect host. 
After reading reviews from other Groupon users, it was with some slight trepidation that we went along to Al Dente on a Monday night. However, we found it to be the opposite of what other people had experienced. We were given a basket of lovely warm bread to eat as we looked through the menu. To be honest, as we are both vegetarian we only looked at the meat-free stuff so can't comment on the rest of the meals but ours were very tasty. I can recommend the gnocchi in a cheese sauce, topped with caramelised leeks, and a there was a huge amount of it too. I wasn't going to have a dessert but after seeing they had a walnut and honey tart with ice cream, I couldn't resist. it was wonderful. As my husband is a cheese fan he went for the italian cheeses and said they were one of the best he had ever had. The service was fine, there was just the one waiter working that night and he managed to keep everyone happy. We will definitely be going back to this restaurant. 
Unlike other Groupon reviewers who didn't seem to have clue about good food we were pleasantly surprised. We eat out a lot but like many people have favourite restaurants we stick to. Groupon was a way for us to maybe venture further. We had no expectatations, if didn't come up to scratch of where we usually eat it didn't matter as was a bargain price.
We were very pleasantly suprised though at the high standards if the meal.
I am addicted to cheese so chose the mozzarella starter from the specials board which my husband had what I initially was going to have, saute de pesce which was mixed seafood. The cheese was bought and made locally and each different mozzarella was gorgeous BUT not as amazing as the seafood of which my poor husband only had half due to me helping myself. The squid so easy to get tough was soft the prawns fair sized and tasty and the sauce JUST seasoned right.
My husband had the belly pork and the skin was just crispy and the meat melted in the mouth. This though was nothing to compare to the coniglio in porchetta. I was worried either one if the meat would be too strong. Rabbit can be but also salami can take over. Neither on this occasion, the terrine of meat in the medallions all complemented each other the pancetta giving it the subtle almost cream like taste.
Both if us had mash potatoes which was was lovely using again the best of ingredients and plenty of butter a truly luxurious puree, not your average dried milky glutenous rubbish here. The vegetables just the right amount and again as everything else cooked to perfection
We didn't have dessert as we both don't really have sweet tooths so always reluctant to try plus we usually only have two courses.
The only other thing I have to comment on was the service. The waiter was well informed, and recommended drinks that suited us both and the chef as well as being excellent chef was friendly a truly amazing personality.
My only negative was for designated drivers soft drinks were unbelievably expensive a small glass of coke was £2. My recommended Merlot though was smooth and buttery.
We WILL be going back, we WILL be recommending and here I thoroughly recommend this hidden Edinburgh treasure. Sp thank you Groupon and thank you Al Dente
Al Dente is a little gem hidden in Edinburgh, well worth a visit, the food, service and atmosphere is first class, the staff couldnt do enough for you. We got a taxi to the restaurant from centre of town only cost about £4.00. Will be back :) 
Like other recent reviewers who went with a 'Groupon' we were very disappointed. We were sat right beside the door on a cold and wet night so had a very uncomfortable night with a constant cold draft . There was another table next to ours further into the restaurant empty all the time we were there but we were not offered this. No bread or oil offered [I presume because we were there on the coupon as others who were not there with a coupon were given it] The starter of sardines with pine nuts was in fact only one small sardine split in two with a thin slice of orange and only a few pine nuts. I have been given larger 'Tasters' in other restaurants the portion was so small. The Pork Belly as main course served with 4 green beans and a table spoon of sloppy potato was so over salted it was verging on the inedible . The walnut torte as sweet was seriously lacking in walnuts. Along with the Clams being off, The Swordfish being off, The Parfait being off , The first three wines we selected being off this was not a good dining experience and for early dining on a Saturday evening was not good practise. The only redeeming factor was the wine was quite nice, but a pity it cost 5p more than charged at a Michelin starred restaurant where I ate the week before.
If joining the 'Groupon Scheme' was to bring in new customers it does not work when you treat diners using coupons as second class citizens serving tiny portions of poor quality food but charging Michelin Star prices. 
My partner and I have lived round the corner from this restaurant for 6 years. We had never been in but tried it when we received a voucher through the online site Groupon. I was welcomed by a very nice waiter-who was faultless and very attentive. However, the second waiter was rude and offensive.
We felt as though because we had used a voucher we were offered a sub-standard service. We did not receive bread when other tables did and my partner was told there was no mussels left for his seafood pasta. Having been offered more prawns to account for this, there were only four in the dish.
Instead of asking whether we wanted dessert the rude waiter grumbled 'do you want coffee?'. We ordered dessert and having ordered chocolate parfait I was surprised to find what looked and tasted like a Tesco's mini muffin arrive. Not wanting to insult the kitchen staff I did not say anything and left half of this.
The final straw was when paying (and tipping!!) the rude waiter literally grabbed the cheque and cash out of my partners hand as he was laying this on the table almost snapping his hand in the bill folder. This was so rude we had to laugh to ourselves as he walked off.
I have always used Trip Advisor when eating/travelling but never felt compelled to review anywhere until now. However the treatment we had tonight has given me the motivation to do so. The food was fine (apart from the parfait muffin) but due to the quality of service I would say stay away! 
We read about Al Dente from Trip Advisor in May on a visit from Hong Kong to Edinburgh and visited. My wife, daughter and I had a superb meal on this first trip and thought it was the best Italian restaurant in its class in UK that we have tried.We loved it so much that I booked again (from HK) 6 weeks in advance of our next visit to Edinburgh. This time we invited a group of friends who hailed from London and Hong Kong (8). We asked the staff to select a meal that we could share (HK style) and we were treated to fantastic food and wine all at reasonable prices. Needless to say the evening went on into the wee small hours and my guests were raving about Al Dente. Prior to continuing on to HK we had another visit and again had a wonderful meal. We are regular visitors to Eddinburgh and on each trip Al Dente will be top of our restaurant visits. 
Having spent several holidays in different parts of Italy we were delighted to discover this little Italian gem not too far from the centre of the town. The waiter/owner, Graziano, makes you feel very welcome and we could not fault the service, the quality of the food or the cleanliness of the place. We also met Graziano’s lovely wife and charming little daughter.
In true Italian style we were giving a basket of bread and oils to dip in while we waited for our food to be freshly cooked. I had a mixed seafood starter and my husband cleared his plate of sardines stuffed with pine nuts - and never found any bones. For mains we both chose the veal with parma ham which came artistically presented with a good variety of finely cut vegetables, including my favourite, tempura courgette.
All washed down with a nice chilled bottle of Frascati. No room for dessert but had coffee instead. We had a voucher but would have happily paid full price for this meal and will certainly be back again. 
We chose to dine at Al Dente as we received a voucher and i tend to like local Italians. To find a diamond you need to trawl through the rough - well this was the rough!
We'd walked quite a way to get there, so before I looked at the menu I fancied a glass of wine and a bowl of olives or bread. This wasnt an option - we had to order the drinks at the same time as the food, and there would be no food before the starter, I was sternly told. It was immediately apparant many people had the same voucher as me, and table turning was the main priority of the evening.
We ordered a bottle of white treibanna - reasonanly priced and easy drinking. We then got starters - both seafood dishes. Mine was simple but the fish was cooked quite well and the sauce was nicer than it looked. However there was endless bits of gristle and bone which made the meal more of a chore then a pleasure. My partner could not even touch his sardines for fear of choking.
The main course - the speciality rabbit rish - was laughingly poor. The smell when it came over set the tone, it really couldnt be described as anything but feet. The rabbit was stuffed with chorizo and other spicy meats but it was inedible. The meat was tough and fatty and the spicy sausages so strong and clashed with the rabbit. The mashed potato was just slop and how they burnt carrots I shall never know. It has been a long time since I have not managed to finish a meal - I could barely start this one.
I ordered the cheese board for dessert as i'd had a craving for cheese since I knew I was going there for my dinner. We ordered it, but decided quickly we couldnt face any more food - paid and made a quick exit.
We went there with our ten year old son on the advice of the local bar tender, and had an excellent meal, one of the best we have had at Edinburgh. Takes about a twenty to thirty minute walk (we did it in the rain) from the center of Edinburgh where most tourists hang out. There was some construction going on outside the building, but the restaurant is open and perfectly quiet and cozy. Great service, efficient and friendly without being too friendly. Great food and wine, not overly pretentious but very fresh and good, at a very decent price. And if this still doesn't convince you, while we ate there, we watched two local Italian families come in for a meal. Plainly the native Italians in Edinburgh think it is the place to go. 
I agree with all the other 5* reviews. Al Dente may be some way from the city centre, but it is well worth finding. If coming from the city centre, take bus route 1 from Princes Street to Easter Road (or a taxi). 
i was touring Scotland for my stag do and stayed in Edinburgh for 2 nights, used trip advisor to find a good Italian restaurant. al dente was the nearest to our hotel so i thought we'd give it a go. went we got there it was cosy and welcoming. the owner was most welcoming even though we were the only customers at that time.
we were offered bread and oils to start off with whilst we look through the menu. the owner was keen to offer something that wasn't on the menu at the time but was going to appear shortly (i.e. he wanted to test it out). i had the venison with a white wine sauce and roasted vegetables and potatoes. this sounded like quite a heavy meal to deal with but when it arrived it was elegant didn't disappoint, i had chosen an Italian white wine to go with the meal, little did i know that i had chosen a wine from Rome because after chatting to the owner during our mains, the dish that i had chosen was also a traditional dish from Rome.
all in all a good cosy restaurant perfect for small romantic evenings or for something a little bit different from the norm. 
My husband and i found this restaurant after searching trip advisor .I am so glad we looked and decided to go a little out of the way for this little gem.We were staying near to the Royal mile in Edinburgh so had to catch a taxi to the restaurant that took 10 mins and cost about £7 .
It was definately worth the taxi fare there and back .Staff very friendly and attentive.
A small restaurant that appears to be family run . Excellant flavours and choice of italian style dishes .
Reasonably priced and good quality .
Only eyesore is the surrounding buildings in front of same but once inside you can forget what the buildings outside look like.
We went to Al Dente two times on our vacation in Edinburgh. Al Dente is small restaurant but has nice, warm and cosy atmosphere. The food was delicious and service helpful and pleasant. Both the chef Antonello and waiter (sorry forgot your name) were outstanding friendly and professional. We met also the owner Graziano in our second vistit, and it was nice to have a chat with him during our dinner. Try for instance bruschetta with different toppings, sea food pasta and homemade desert cake. Ask for wine recomendations, they know the best combination. Yam! I would certainly recommend Al Dente to family and friends. 
We were made to feel very welcome in this small, friendly and relaxed restaurant. The food was excellent, we shared two portions of bruschetta between three to start, different meat dishes to follow, all very good and for dessert we all opted for the tiramisu made by the owner. We found the background music to be just that, and added to, not detracted from, this most pleasurable dining experience. 
Small room but cosy atmosphere. Freshly cooked tasty food (some is home-made) and a helpful, friendly owner/waiter made our experience pleasantly different from a meal in a larger or chain restaurant. The owner offered advice about dishes and wine and made an effort to ensure that we enjoyed our evening.
Book early because there aren't many tables. Some pasta is home-made as is some of the pesto so ask before ordering if you want home-made. 
Second review I am giving this place -was there last month but this time took my two teenage daughters .Their empty plates prompts me to write again .its not the usual Italian food -it is real home cooking and it is genuinely nice with wide variety of dishes to suit all palates .very friendly atmosphere with really attentive service 
Service was outstanding, food the best I have ever experienced,I am a very fussy Vegitarian but was very pleasently suprised, I just stated the foods I do not like and hey the food I got was fresh and the best ever, I have been back and was delighted to find that my experience was still the same. my husband and I traveled from Falkrk and would happlly be doing this monthly. 
We have just returned from our first trip to Edinburgh. We went to Al Dente on our first night and really enjoyed it. The food was delicious and not expensive and the background music most enjoyable. It was nice to have a chat with the chef after as well. I would certainly recommend it to family and friends. 
I would not normally write reviews for restaurants as often my experience is the same: average-poor food at ridiculous prices.
However, this restaurant made my family's trip to Edinburgh worthwhile.
The food was fantastic- simple but delicious and inventively presented.
The pasta I had was cooked to perfection- truly 'al dente', with a homemade pesto sauce which tasted fresh and succulent.
On that night, I was not feeling particularly hungry, so opted for the half portion.
Not only was it equally delicious as a full portion, but it represented great value- the portion was very reasonable for its low price.
Also, the starter I shared (bruschetta with different toppings) was again very simple and again really delicious!
The apple strudel and ice cream both seemed homemade and were very enjoyable.
The atmosphere was relaxing, with italian music playing which really took me to Italy.
The waiter was attentive and helpful without interfering or interrupting the meal.
Overall, the £60 I paid for three people, including three main meals, one desert and two glasses of wine was great value and some of the best food I have ever eaten.
Definitely 5*, and worthy of a michelin star in my opinion.  
If you are planning a trip to Edinburgh, you MUST eat here. No question. We booked having reviewed previous comments on Tripadvisor. This is a small gem about 5 minutes in a taxi from Princes Street. It has the feel of an Italian restuarant in Italy - rather than in the UK. This is always a good sign - so if modern decor, table fashion and miniscule portions of food are what you seek, then Al Dente is not the place for you. Which is a shame because the food is simply the best you will find anywhere. The menu is simple but authentic, the plates were full, and the flavours beat anything I have experienced in over 30 years of dining Italian in the UK. The mushroom risotto, and frutta di mare tagliatelle starters, plus the chicken main course, were wonderfully cooked by the chef Antonello (?), and the tiramisu to follow was the best ever. Graziano, as host, has been trading for less than 2 years but fully deserves the overall rating within Tripadvisor. He was excellent and was passionate about his business, including his policy of using only the best local produce. We shall definitely return when next in town. 
Small intimate restaurant. Run by an Italian and italian music playing in the background. Attention to detail first class and the food was fantastic. I had stuffed calamari for starters which was beautiful, my husband had risotto which was the best he had tasted. Main courses and sweets were also delicious. Service was great and not too swift so we spent all evening in the restaurant - thoroughly enjoyable night. 
Visited this restaurant on our way to Hong Kong via Barbados. If the restaurants that we visit are as good we will be very lucky indeed. Food is first class, attentive service and food is reasonably priced. One of the best Italian restaurants in Edinburgh for sure. 
This restaurant is small and intimate, the food is first class and service by the owner is first class, he took time to speak to us and the chef spent some time with us at the end of the evening, i would recommend this restaurant to anyone.
Had very nice meal at Al Dente recently. Impressed by the owners obvious passion and pride in what he has achieved with this restaurant. Had a simple but tasty spinach canneloni for starter which not only was a nicely sized portion but also cooked to perfection. The pan fried sea bass isnt neccesarily a traditional italian dish in my mind but that only made it better. Vegetables cooked just right and the fish itself was particularly tasty. All topped off with a good range of desserts. The place itself was very much a front room restaurant, in other words, comfortable, cosy and welcoming. Would certainly come again. 
Amazed this fantastic wee place could be described as average. I'm a local and this was my sixth visit to Al Dente - I've only experienced Italian food as good as this during trips to Italy. Yes, it's not in the centre of town, but that adds to the charm. The ambience is relaxed and casual and the owner always provides a warm welcome. Indeed his enthusiasm for the food and wine really enhances the whole experience. Whether you are a local or a visitor, this is a must try experience. Easily my favourite restaurant in Edinburgh. 
Staying only one night in Edinburgh we though we'd use TripAdvisor and decided on Al Dente. I must say that I am very surprised that this is considered #3 in the list. Located a short taxi ride away from central Edinburgh it cost about £8 each way.
The premises is small but comforatable and quickly filled up when we arrived. The food is nice, but the other reviews on tripadvisor led us to expect far more. We were both left disappointed mainly due to the other rave reviews. in my opinion you can get food just as nice in central Edinburgh and put the taxi fare you saved on a nice bottle of wine. 
We visited on 1 January 2010. The owner took time to chat about the menu and specials available. Choice was difficult, the menu had several we wanted to try. We found a strong emphasis on quality of the ingredients and flavour, the open kitchen inspires confidence. Having travelled extensively in Italy and recently been in Sicily we recognised many touches we only previously found in Italy. For such a small place the atmosphere was great. Have recommended to several friends and will definitely visit again. 
My boyfriend and I visited this restaurant during a weekend break in Edinburgh and I loved it so much I had to write my first review on here! We booked the restaurant solely because of the high rating it had received on trip advisor and were not disappointed.
The restaurant is located slightly outside of the centre tourist area of Edinburgh but is only a 5 minute cab ride from the centre of the city and is definitely worth it. This is a very authentic Italian restaurant, with amazing Italian food, the swordfish I had to start was one of the best starters I have ever had!
The waiter and owner of the restaurant showed such passion for the food and country and gave us amazing personal service. This is best experience I have ever had in an Italian restaurant both because of the exceptional food and the service, I cannot recommend this restaurant enough. 
Having read trip advisor reviews and having taken a number of personal recommendations we decided to opt for Al Dente on our recent visit to Edinburgh. The very warm welcome with a kiss was a nice surprise! The detailed explanations behind each dish and wine selection were very helpful but best of all was the food. The food was excellent and made with the freshest of ingredients in a truly authentic Italian style. A very enjoyable evening which the owner and host Graziano played a very significant part. Thank you Graziano. 
We visited Al Dente on a monday evening in January 2010. We were the only table booked, but Graziano (the owner) made us feel very welcome and special. We had a beautiful meal with excellent wine. My husband had the best risotto he has ever tasted and delicious stuffed chicken and I had figs with gorgonzola cheese and parma ham (a special) and the most beautiful piece of cod. The dessert was lovely too. It was a taxi drive from our hotel at the other end of Princes St, but we are so glad we went. We will defintely go back and just wish we had a lovely local Italian restaurant like this near where we live. 
We visited Al Dente a few days before Christmas based on Trip Advisor recommendations. Food was good, and service was excellent. The owner was really interesting and chatted with us for a long time. We plan on going back in Summer - sounds like thay have wonderful theme evenings with Italian regional cuisine.
We ate there on a Monday night, and the restaurant was empty for most for the evening, though other restaurants in Edinburgh seemed really busy all that week - not sure why. If you go to Al Dente on a cold night - dress warmly - they don't seem to have much heating. We worse coats/ jackets most of the time.
went there for my wifes 40th birthday,as its near christmas it was a christmas menu with 3 courses,oooops i told the man when i was booking it,there two kids coming they wouldnt manage all that,no probs we will sort something out,So 8 adults and 2 kids duly arrived,needless to say he did his thing flirting with the ladies and looking after the kids (good man wouldnt expect anything else in an Italian restaurant)
But enough of that to me it dosnt matter what restaurants look like i am there for the food, and boy does it deliver,nothing else i can say apart from out of this world, three courses of bliss wine was good service was good,not had Italian food like it outside of Italy,it was that good
Price was so good,food was even better ,when i got home found out he had not charged me for the kids meals that he had got the chef to make for them,so i will be going back to pay (will be having another meal of course)
so in a nutshell,is there a better Italian restaurant in Edinburgh no,Scotland no, UK no, somewhere there might be in a small village in Italy but dont hold your breath,this place is that good 
Came here after reading the reviews on Tripadvisor when we visited Edinburgh last weekend.
This tiny restaurant serves the most delicious food, all locally sourced where possible and freshly cooked.
I had probably the best risotto and fillet steak i've ever tasted, delicious!
The staff were friendly and attentive without sitting on your shoulder. If you like authentic Italian food at a reasonable price i'd highly recommend this little gem next time you're in Edinburgh. 
Al Dente is an excellent, friendly, homely and truly Italian dining experience not to be missed. The chef and waiter run it together, planning a menu from a different region of Italy for a special feast each month, the most successful dishes making it on to the ever-changing menu. Pre-booking is mostly not necessary but is necessary for these monthly menus. I have never been disappointed, which I cannot say for any restaurant I have been to in Italy! 
My wife and I had a romantic dinner last night in this premises. We both really enjoy Italian cuisine and were looking forward to try it in Al Dente after checking the reviews in Trip Advisor.
Food was absolutely magnificent and in 100% authentic and the service was extremely warm and friendly. Graziano - the waiter and owner in one - was really taking care of us from warm welcome through helping us with choosing proper wine and finishing on the nice chit chat.
We would recommend it to everybody who love real Italian food and like to be pamper a bit by attentive staff.
Even the choice of music in the background was spot on. 
An exceptional italian restaurant, authentic feel and amazing food. The service is incredible, having every dish passionately described and the perfect wine to compliment. We were looked after by Graziano, who could not have made us feel more welcome. I would take my best friends, family or business contacts here because it is just so impresive!
It is a small, intimate restaurant which I am looking forward to frequenting.
As past reviewers have said, this must be the best Italian restaurant in Edinburgh. There can't be anymore than about a dozen tables in the place, but the service, quality of food and all round value for money was excellent. Graziani as a 'front of office' host was brilliant and he explained the menu as if he was cooking it himself. No stuffy atmosphere and the bill was just over £50 for full 3 courses and drinks. Just SUPERB!!! 
I've never been moved to review a restaurant before but feel that I simply can't let this little gem go without mention. Selected on a whim as somewhere we hadn't tried in Edinburgh, this wonderful restaurant did not dissapoint. We were welcomed warmly into Graziano's and Stefan's restaurant - like old friends. The menu was inviting and interesting and the food on delivery was out of this world. Great home cooking and first class service in this little treasure. We haven't found an Italian restaurant in Edinburgh that offered wonderful food in a friendly atmosphere since The Patio in Hanover Street closed when Mimo and Carmella left - until now that is. We know we have found a new "home" of italian cooking and are confident about becoming regulars. First Class - not overly fussy - not overly priced - just good sensible food and affordable prices - Enjoy 
Like food ? Like Italian food? Fed up of over priced over fussy city centre restaurants? Want to taste real Italian cooking ? If your answer is yes to any of these questions call them and book a table today. Really friendly and warm place and owner. It could easily become a second home. Get to know them now as in six months i'd wager you wont be able to get a table for love nor money. Really talented chef - the only risotto i've tasted that was even on a par with the one i eat yesterday was in the mother country itself. This is the real deal, i'm so excited to have found it. 
I came to Edinburgh for my wifes birthday and had pre booked this restaurant having read Trip Advisor.
We were not disappointed.
The staff are exceptionally friendly and there is a warm atmosphere in the restaurant.
The atmosphere is very relaxing and the owner takes pride in explaining his culinary skills.
I was looking forward to having a steak but as the dishes are cooked fresh, the steak had sold out.I was not disappointed as the chicken dish was sublime and as for the battered courgette superb!
I would recommend this restaurant and would advise booking in advance.
And it is - very good. Food cooked to order and was superb.
Very small restaurant so presumably the one chef can cope, at weekends.
Not busy on the Tuesday we visited, only a few diners but several Italians amongst them.
Prices good - menu not extensive but only small kitchen preparing fresh.
Real effort is put in by the owner to make your visit a friendly, memorable experience.
Not a brilliant location, and decor clean but needs updating. If these aspects are important don't go. But if good food is what's important to you, you MUST try it.
I was at Al Dente twice in one week during my three week visit to Scotland from the USA. My cousin and her boyfriend took me there one evening and I had a wonderful time. Graziano was so friendly and spent time talking with us and made is feel very welcome. The food is absolutely wonderful. I am from the Chicago area and this food rivals any that I have had here in the states. We started with an appetizer of Calamari ripieni.. It was fantastic. The Risotto al radicchio was heavenly!!!! The restaurant is very cozy and warm. I love all the pictures he has around the restaurant. I enjoyed Al Dente so much I asked to go back there for my last evening in Edinburgh. Again we had the same appetizers because I liked them so much and for my main dish I had Cannelloni ripieni. Absolutely wonderful! Both Times we had tiramisu for desert, oh my gosh, the best I ever had. Graziano made me so welcome and again the food was wonderful. I hope to be able to return to Edinburgh and to Al Dente someday. The chef, Stefano, is the best! He came out of the kitchen and chatted with us for a few minutes before leaving for the night. These two are a great combination of owner and chef. 
After traveling up and down easter road 3 or 4 times looking for the wrong restaurant, we eventually found the glorious Al dente. Upon entering this quaint little eatery we were warmly welcomed by the extremely good looking and very chatty waiter who then shown us to out table. The first thing that hits you when you open the menu is the vast choice. 300 to be exact. After browsing through the huge selection my self and my hot date decided to go for the old faithful, LASSANGE!!!!. Whilst waiting for the bull to be beaten we sipped on some lovely rose wine and played with the balsamic vinegar stand. We were trying to figure out what was so good about this place but we couldn't at first put our finger on it, then it dawned on us....... it was the music!!!! It wasn't the usual house music you would expect to here but traditional italian music with a russian tetris twist!!! By the time our lassange's arrived we were right into the swing of thing and the waiter chatted to us just long enough for it to cool a bit. the desert was also Delicious with a cherry ice cream extravaganza. So in all it was a great night. The best thing was the company though :) :) :) !!!! Blah 
I don't know why so many Italian and Greek restaurants try to give an impression of authenticity with lots of pseudo-classical columns and statues. This restaurant provides real authenticity and the atmosphere of a contemporary Italian trattoria. The Italian music playing in the background is tasteful, avoiding the syrupy, sentimental stuff one often associates with Italy. And most importantly the food is great. My wife and I had antipasti consisting of swordfish carpaccio and calamari stuffed with vegetables; the mains were lamb steak in a wine and rosemary sauce and lemon sole, and we finished up with a couple desserts (including a delicious tiramisu and a peach sorbet) and a plate of Italian cheeses, all accompanied by a nice bottle of the house white, a wine from the Veneto region several classes better than the cheap washed-out wines that region produces in lamentably large volumes. Service was great, and the owner (from the Puglia region) obviously puts a lot of heart and thought into what he is doing. In all, if you want a nice Italian dinner in Edinburgh, this is the place to go. 
On a warm May evening my husband, a friend and myself stepped into Tuscany via the magic portals of Al Dente, the Easter Road restaurant owned by the very welcoming and charming Graziono Spano. This was the second of Graziano’s themed evenings designed to introduce diners to authentic regional Italian cuisine accompanied by carefully chosen wines. The small restaurant has been enlivened by a plethora of photographs, including Graziano’s native Bari in the South of Italy and by fresh roses on the tables.
After canapés and prosecco we had caciucco alla Livornese, a traditional dish of shell fish and fish in tomato sauce – absolutely delicious, as was the white Galestro wine Graziano served as an accompaniment. This was followed by a prima patti of homemade pasta and duck ragout (pappardella al ragu di anatra). The rose wine (rosa di ninfa) which accompanied the pasta dish was my absolute favourite. It really had the aroma and taste of strawberries!
The arista di maiale con rosmarino (pork loin with rosemary, served with artichokes and roast potatoes) which followed melted in the mouth. The potatoes were particularly tasty and I’d love the recipe. This was served with a full bodied Chianti. How did I cope with all this food, you may ask? I simple ate a little of every course, while many of the diners cleared their plates with relish.
The zuccotto sweet of light sponge cake with white chocolate and nuts was the perfect desert and the Il santo wine complemented it perfectly. It was an exquisite conclusion to the Tuscan banquet – Graziano’s answer to “Babette’s Feast”.
Graziano was the perfect host, telling us about the wines, keen to hear what we thought of the food created by chef Antonello. After coffee I floated up Easter Road full of the light, warmth and sheer joy of Italy – as well as all that wonderful food.
The menu, including wines and coffee cost £38 per person. The next theme night features the Lazio region and will be on 29th May. See you there! 
Went to this tiny eaterie for Saturday lunch. It is on the site of the old Tinnelli restaurant on Easter Road, which I always meant to go to but never did.
It had advertised a set lunch Tuesday to Saturday(£7.95 I think) previously but this is now only available Monday to Friday. Nonetheless, having heard from friends that it was worthy of a visit we decided to try it out.
We were welcomed by the proprietor Graziano Spano who hailes from Bari on Italys Adriatic coast. A limited number of tables are available so if your heart is set I would book ahead.
The style is modern italian. Cooked by the Chef Stefan,
from Rimini & the food did not disappoint. I started with Smoked Salmon which was a special (£5.50 for a fairly large serving)& came with rocket, parmesan & garlic bread. Graeme had the soup of the day(£2.95), Cream of pea & ham, which also came with a slice of garlic bread. It looked great so I had to have a taste. Wonderful!! We both opted for the Lasagne de Pesce for our second course, sheets of lasagne pasta with a scallops king prawn & mushroom sauce. Fantastico! At £7.20 we didn’t expect this to be a huge portion, so took the descision to order a mixed salad to share also. Glad we did as this rounded it off nicely. This was washed down with a bottle of the very respectable house white, and a bottle of still water. The bill came to around £43.00
The service was great, Graziano was assisted by a rather nervous wine waiter from Naples, who settled into his role as the service went on. We think it must have been his first day. The space is small & cosy, the kitchen tiny & the food brilliant. I would urge you to try it out. 
Unfortunately a mixed bag. On a positive note, all the staff were excellent and deserve high praise as they were extremely attentive and friendly. However, the kitchen didn't manage to maintain this high standard. For a start, portions are inconsistent as they range from average to small (even for the same bloody dish!!) which isn't good enough considering the A la carte prices are in the average to high category. In fact, if I had been picking up the tab myself (father-in-laws treat) the plates would have been returned to the kitchen immediately for rectification. Biggest disappointment was inconsistency with the flavours. Starters, bruschetta pomodoro, tomatoes like turnips, lacking in salt, no balsamic, just very poor and lazy. Unsure if chef has no palate, or using cheap ingredients to save money (or both), but not good enough as I buy nice sweet vine ripened tomatoes myself from the supermaket and I'm a bloody amateur!. Lasagne & Pasta Carbonara, extremely good indeed. Calzone, great flavour from filling, very poor texture of cooked dough (the acid test). So, not sure if this is a restaurant on the way up or way down, but based on this inconsistent performance I get the impression that the lack of competition in the Inverurie area is letting the owner get lazy with the standards. Not bad, but with some attention to detail could be miles better. 
We have visited Edinburgh 3 times now and each time have visited Vittorias (the one on Brunswick St). We love it and plan to return again on our next trip to Edinburgh.
We ate there on New Years Eve at around 7.30pm and even though it was extremely busy, we could not fault the service or the food. I had mussels in a cream and bacon sauce with frsh crusty bread, it was delicious. I then had one of the best steaks I have ever tasted with a balsamic vinegar sauce, sauteed potatoes and cherry tomatoes. I don't know how I had room but I managed to fit in a dessert of homemade cheesecake, which was the perfect ending to a delicious meal.
Thanks again for making our New Years Eve even more special. 
This was the first time I had been to Rustico after I was recommended to go there by a colleague at work. Despite being a Tuesday night it was busy and I can see why. Great atmosphere, attentive staff and the food was nothing short of stunning. I had a starter and main course from the specials available. Fresh pasta made on the premises was incredible. Rustico's great reputation is well deserved. I will definitely be back soon. 
I had a great meal there on the 20th February with a couple of mates. Downstairs is intimate and it was busy on a very quiet night. The food, atmosphere, service and wine were spot on and when the bill came this felt like the best value meal I have had for a while. Well worth its rating on this basis! 
i visited whilst in Aberdeen on business. The food was good (had the carpaccio, and salsiccia pasta) and I could tell that the ingredients were of good quality. The staff were very attentive and I didn't feel out of place eating on my own (I was tucked away in a dark corner, which was ideal for me). The bread, oil and vinegar on arrival are a must for an italian restaurant, so I was pleased to see that these are provided (this probably pushed it to 4/5 rather than 3/5 for me). I would go back if I was in the area, but it didn't blow me away. 
Rustico is not a bad Italian restaurant. Neither is it anything very special.
The food is pleasant and more than adequate for a quick lunch with friends or workmates
but I wouldn't say that it would fit the bill for a special occasion.
A little pricey for what you get, Rustico nevertheless seems to have a loyal clientelle and maybe it's a bit better that my experiences there.
Give it a try one lunchtime and see for yourself. 
this is a big place but don't let that put you off, although they are doing a huge number of covers per night the food we had was of a very good, fresh standard.
We had a shared starter, meats and mozzarella etc, very tasty.
We had a standard £10 main each, both sea food dishes, both packed with goodies again well prepared and very very tasty.The atmosphere is a bit loud due to the size so maybe not suited for a totally intimate meal for 2 (on a date for example) but good for small or large groups.
how great to find a slice of the med in the middle of grey old aberdeen! i dont know why i have never been here before but the food, staff and atmosphere at rustico was so welcoming i have been telling everyone at work about it this morning! i love the decor inside, felt like i had stepped out of the rain into a cosey italian bistro and the warmth of the staff cheers you up straight away. i had fresh lemon sole special with the home made large ravioli stuffed with lobster and my boyfriend had the spicy sausage pasta - we didnt talk all through dinner as we enjoyed the food so much. 11 out of 10 and a must for anyone who loves good food ! 
My wife and I stopped in on a busy night and the staff squeezed us into a tight time slot that we were very happy with. Becasue of the time contraints we got excellent and fast service. However, the food was a bit "stale". My wife's spagetti was congealed into a large mass and she had to add some drinking water to the bowl to get it separate. The tomato salad starter was also very weak becuase of the poor quality tomatoes at this time of year - probably should have come off the menu for now. All in all it was fine, the staff were fine, buit we would likely go somewhere else in Aberdeen next time to try new restaurants. Price was reaasonble but I still have problems paying £9.00 for a small bowl of past that probably cost about 50 p to make. 
I went to Rustico with five friends to celebrate my birthday. For a Tuesday night, usually a quiet night in Aberdeen, the small resteraunt was packed for the entire time we were in, although it was in no way overcrowded and uncomfortable. We all enjoyed a two course dinner with our main courses ranging over pastas, steak and seafood with each dish being excellent. I personally had the padellata siciliana which i would recomend. The staff were friendly, attentative and polite . Overall a great night and will certainly be back. 
Enjoyed this restaurant on a busy Saturday evening. Unpretentious and authentic Sicilian focus with good wine list. Warm informal atmosphere and attentive service. The Timbalo Siciliano was excellent. Loved the red and white chequered vinyl tablecloths and walls covered in photos from Sicily which made you forget you were in Aberdeen on a cold and rainy November night! Will be back to try more. 
Booked a table at this restaurant as i was entertaining guests from London went in to check that everything was okay an hour before i was due to meet my guests.
To my surprise they had no reservation booked for me the staff member at the desk was very unhelpfull at my prodicament stateing that it was not their problem and it was clearly obvious that he was not willing to even try and help the situation i cant rate the food but if it is as good as the customer service then it will leave a bitter taste in your mouth 
6 of us went here for a meal before going to see a show at the Music Hall. We were slightly pushed for time & the staff kindly acknowledged this. Our food came out quickly, I was worried that it was too quick but no one had any complaints about their food as everyone said their dishes were really nice. The portions are huge & it is truly rustic italian cuisine. I can not rate the Linguine Marinara highly enough, I actually cant wait to go back & try it again.
Unfortunately we didnt have time for dessert but we all got a free shot of lemoncello which was a nice touch. Its a very small restaurant so no use for big parties & we sometimes struggled with what our waiter was saying to us due to the heavy accent but that was our problem, not his.

We went to the Italian Kitchen on Saturday as a party of 18. I had been and looked at the venue earlier in the day and was slightly worried by the shabbiness of the restaurant, but we all agreed that the food and service were excellent and would definitely go back. 
Firstly - Unfriendly service - waitress was very impatient, tearing off order notes in front of our eyes. Secondly - food was overpriced, tasteless and very basic. A meal deal (about £8) said: salads for starter and chili pasta for main. For salads it was literally 3 leaves of salad in plate with some olive oil. Pasta - not cooked enough and taste was horribly overkilled with garlic chili. Minestrone soup - few small pieces of vegetables floating in water. As London visitors, I think, we were caught in one of those "tourist one-off visiting restaurants". We've never had such a bad restaurant experience before! 
Italian Kitchen delicious food, good service, nice people, one of the few restaurants we visited twice.  very very nice nite out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money.  3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly.  Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful. The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed. All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu. thoroughly recommend.
Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate! Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice. I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 
I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening. We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 
In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they. The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers. I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. 
I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation. 
I have to say; I never felt so bad with my guest for a while. Very small and sticky, the food had no taste and the presentation and service definitely need attention. Never again 
Lovely quaint and authentic restaurant. Have visited on lunchtimes and evenings. Lunchtimes are typically busy so would recomend pre-booking if there is a crowd but you should be OK of there are just the two of you. Evenings are a much more erlaxed affair with time to enjoy the fantastic food and the wine. Staff are attentive and helpful and don't hassle you for orders or anything else. The kitchen is open and is occupied by a number of chefs. They have a few specials and I've tried a few things off the menu but always seem to drift back to the Pizza Napoli (with spinach). It's becoming a bit of a regular haunt for me. 
avoid. its costly for what it is. 
My friend recommended Number Twelve as a great restaurant. Finally I have decided to go there and I have to say I was impressed. Very nice modern décor, delicious and very well presented food, fantastic service plus nice atmosphere. But it is not all: I was literally speechless over wine list. Surely everyone will find something to drink. We had Sauvignon Cru for starter (no doubts best white wine I have ever had) and Sangiovese from Valturio. Staff is very polite and professional. On top of that prices are reasonable. Definitely I will dine in Number Twelve more
No more glamour for this venue........avoid it and plenty of place around the area  often.
I see my last review of this restaurant is almost 18 months old. As I live locally, I've probably been 4 times since then, the latest being last night. I don't usually do multiple reviews but, in view of some of the negative comments, I feel that, for balance, I should add that I have never been less than fully satisfied here. I usually dine "a la carte" but last night I had the "special menu" of 3 courses with prosecco, olives and bread for £22. Enough choice and the food was tasty and well-cooked, excellent value at that price. As usual we discussed wines with the manager - I like his enthusiasm - and were very happy with his recommendation of a Calabrian red, not unreasonably priced at £36 given its quality. Personally I have always found the service polite and efficient and last night was no exception. Last night it was pretty busy so the "atmosphere" was more lively than it sometimes is. One plus of this restaurant is that the tables are well-spaced, so no danger of putting your elbow in the plate of a diner at the next table or inadvertently joining in their conversation ! I shall happily return. 
Excellent food, great wine, good service indeed... overall great value. Faultless. 
If Mr Cerilli is the manager, the service cannot be less than fantastic! There is no one around who knows and loves and is passionate about his job more than him, and it shows. Extremely good value too. Keep up the good job and see you soon.  
The Valentine massacre: it is unfair to rate a restaurant on a night like this but service and details were not up to scatch in comparison with the lovely and well presented food.sicilian wine a good offer but not well matched with menu. 
Number Twelve I came from Germany and we are not used to those fancy bits but after few free grappas we can eat stones as well.
Great food, good value but hotel surrounding and maitre'd "trattoria" are not my cup of tea......right venue for Euston area overall. 
I don't understand the negative comments about this restaurant. I found the service to be excellent and the food a real treat. I'm rather fussy about meat and was very impressed by the starter : thin slices of very tender cold duck with citrus fruits. It was delicious. My main was the pumpkin risotto : one of the best I've tasted, very light, tasty and al dente. House wine was good as well as the Cognac to finish the meal. My friend had a steamed sea bass, fresh and well cooked. And the atmosphere of the restaurant is very nice, calm and cosy. So I highly recommend it. It's not over priced, and quite reasonable compared to more fashionable restaurants. 
I'll get straight to the point and say the food here is poor. Very poor. From the outside it looks fine. It has an old Italian look and the clientele suggests welcoming family food. The pavement dining area looks inviting and I'm guessing that on a warm summer's evening it could be nice with a glass of wine and some nibbles outside. However .... We had 2 courses, the starter and mains. We shared bruschetta and some parma ham with a salad. I can say without doubt that I could have prepared better myself if I had been picking and preparing blindfolded. And I can't cook. For mains, we had pizza and lasagne. The pizza was very bland and undercooked. Obviously they don't have a proper pizza oven. And as for the lasagne, tasteless, plastic-like and possibly from a microwave. Pitifully limp sautee potatoes also added to the delight. Probably the worst meal in London I've ever had. And the wine wasn't even cold. 
What a hidden gem! This is a beautiful new restaurant hidden behind two of London's busiest streets - Shaftsbury Ave and Tottenham Ct Road. After a day of shopping I was planning to meet a friend and stumbled upon the new building housing this Zizzi. I arrived to find live music that was absolutely brilliant. Becki Biggins was hosting (big fan now) and the selection of young singers was really impressive. I ended up having a proper night out in London and one of the best Pizza's I've ever had - so spicy, thin and big - I'm converted to the Picante Rustica and will be back! That and a glass of Proseco for £4....so cheap and yummy. They're doing music every Thursday evening and said they'd carry on if it was popular - go as it's a great night out and I want to go back again with girlfriends and make a night of it! 
11 Park Walk is a neighbourhood Italian restaurant that has taken over the former Aubergine site in Chelsea. A seasonal Italian menu is served all day and includes dishes like black ink cod, seared scallops with saffron vinaigrette, and linguini with fresh lobster.
Last Saturday lunchtime my girlfriend and I went to Brunello for a quick lunch. £70 [2 courses and 2 glasses of wine] later we left having experienced a poor meal and poorer service. The maitre d' was off hand at the start [we never saw him again], the waiters could do nothing right; they provided a dish of olive oil but no bread, this came when requested after the starter; they dropped a plate; they failed to see that I did not have a knife and fork for the main course; delivered two plates of cakes and left them until reminded that they were for the table next door; failed to give that table any cake plates until reminded. As for the food it was not what you expect for £20 a head. In particular the chips with the chicken were soggy and could well have been frozen. Judging from other reviews there was something seriously amiss with front of house on this occasion but since I will not be returning I cannot say whether it was due to a single glitch or a systemic problem. 
Service was good if a little too attentive - the staff tended to 'hover' too much. We were pushed for time as we had booked to go to the Proms for 7pm but had we had more time we'd probably have complained about the food. 1 person in the party had seabass which was good and the other two had pasta which was supposedly with crab - well stingy is not the word, we had a few tiny flakes of crab and the rest was pasta, overall it was pretty bland and unexciting considering the price - with 1 bottle of wine and a bottle of water and no starters/desserts we paid £100. Not good value for money. Best thing about the place is the decor, it's quite classy. But for food, rather disappointing. I would not go back. 
I was very pleasantly surprised! I went to Cafe Pasta not really expecting too much and left having all but licked my plate clean! My bowl of pasta was cooked well with the correct amount of sauce i.e. just coating the pasta and not swimming in sauce as seems to be the case at many other Italian restaurants. The food was tasty, arrived in good time and was well priced. It's not the sort of place where every morsel delights the tastebuds but it's definitely recommended for an easy, quick and satisfying dinner. 
This is a good Italian restaurant, not exceptionally authentic, but ok for pizza and pasta. Good prices, can be slow in busy times. 
This is a small and cosiest restaurant in the whole of Chiswick. The place is family run and provides the most authentic Italian i have ever tasted in London. Rumour has it, that their mozzarella is flown in every other day and you can really see it, particularly on their pizzas, as it is a real and true and one and only Fior Di Latte! We go there quite often, so it is difficult to choose the dishes that i would like to recommend. But, my favourite is - Paccheri Alla Partenotea, my three year old daughter will die for Mellenzane alla Parmiggiana, my husbands favourite is Buffalo Fillet Steak. Also, one thing about their bread - it is NOT over salted, which seems to be a cheap=p trick a lot of Italian restaurants use ... So for me as a mum with 2 small children this restaurant is a piece of haven which believe me is not an easy find. 
Canta Napoli (Chiswick) Canta Napoli is what you want in an Italian restaurant. All the ingredients are outstandingly fresh, the bread is always amazing and the pizzas are crisp. All this has lead to consistantly great food! Mostly Italian staff, incredibly cheap for the service and amount of food you get. 
I visited Canta Napoli on wednesday 20th January, late afternoon/ early evening. What a fantastic place! I popped in for a quick coffee, which was absolutey delicious and ended up sampling some pizza marinara which was divine. I was most impressed with the welcome that the staff showed to young children, making it an enjoyable experience for the whole family. The casual cafe feel was perfect for an after school/ early dinner treat, however moving into the evening, the lights were dimmed and the atmosphere transformed the typical romantic, rustic charm of all good Italian restaurants. I would recommend this treasure of a place for anyone who knows and loves good italian food. 
Went to Canta Napoli recently. Very reasonably priced and the service was friendly and enthusiastic, but the food was truly the worst I have had in a restaurant in memory. I wasn't expecting mircales, given that this is clearly meant to be an unassuming neighbourhood place, but it was really inedible. The pasta was hugely underdone (not al dente, just uncooked), the sauce unenjoyably sweet, the pizza soggy. The staff were apologetic and reduced our bill without fuss. Perhaps an off-night, but when I walk by and see everyone sitting in there -- and the place is very popular -- I can't imagine why. 
This place is a bit of a treasure. Not much to look at outside or in. But the food is quite excellent. The pizzas are wholly authentic, and cooked right before your eyes. I have to say the pizza dough is second to none. A far far cry from the rubbish at the Pizza Express round the corner. I've had a leek and sausage pizza with some sort of stringy cheese and it was one of the nicest pizzas I've ever eaten. Today I had a canellini bean soup special, my missus had a simple tomato and mozzarella salad and our boy had a kids' menu margherita pizza and it was all fabulous. The place has somewhat of a cafe feel which belies how good the food is. The kids' menu is excellent. And the prices are totally reasonable. From what I could see at the back, the salamis and hams are a very good quality too. What a brilliant local place. I'm surprised I'm the first to review it here. 
Went last night, not been before but thought it looked very nice from the outside and the menu looked good so popped in. The interior is, as others have said, extremely well done. Our service was quite slow and inattentive, surprising given there appeared to be enough staff around and the restaurant was half full. We ordered a bruschetta and antipasto misto for starter. The bruschetta was lovely, and the antipasto misto tasted very nice however it was presented on a plate so small you had to rummage around to work out what was there. Our mains arrived and were a Caesar salad and an Italian take on fish and chips. The dressing on the Caesar salad was really, really weak. It tasted very similar to a Sainsbury's ‘Good For You’ one I have in my fridge (not saying that's what they used of course!). Despite being really rather hungry I couldn't bring myself to finish eating the salad because it just didn't do anything for me. Over the table my girlfriend was having an equally disappointing time. Her fish had arrived and was a good sized flat fish in a fried breadcrumb coating with large roast potato wedges. The fish itself tasted good however there wasn't any sauce or dressing anywhere. When we asked for something to go with it our waiter initially brought over some tomato ketchup and then a lemon butter sauce which was so tart it made your face turn inside out! Again my girlfriend lost her appetite half way through the course. We spoke to the manager to say we rather disappointed in the main course. He seemed concerned and said they did make all the food and dressings in house and that we would not be charged for the mains. Whilst we were waiting for the bill the owner came out and said she would completely comp the meal and gave us a gift voucher to use in the future, a very generous gesture. Unfortunately neither I nor my girlfriend are sure we want to return as it was a real let down. 
You have to admire a slick shop that can feed the multitudes efficiently on a Bank Holiday Monday. Ciao Baby Cucina is, despite the name, almost a grown-up restaurant. They may even, perhaps, be cooking as much food as they assemble. There was reassuringly someone I took to be a "man-in-charge" (wearing a louder shirt than anyone else without being teased by the waiters). Service was prompt and proficient. The concept and decor was like Carluccios with wood (rather than formica) and larger portions. Unfortunately, the larger portions on our lunch table each included excess doses of salt. Pizza dough was too salty. Lasagne was too salty. Seafood risotto was too salty (and also very high on the chilli-ometer but without any red flag in the menu). The side dishes fared better. Green beans with onions and garlic were under-cooked, but not over-seasoned. Spinach was spot on. Difficult to go wrong with wilted spinach, but I was grateful nonetheless for the small mercy. This place is a whisker away from being an unexpectedly solid choice despite a shopping centre setting. All they need is someone in the kitchen who samples some of the food from time to time and hates marmite. 
Just had lunch there today and it was great. Our Italian waiter Paolo I think was very friendly and gave good explanations of everything (and even complemented me on my pronunciation !). The bruscetta to start was so very fresh. It was followed by a beautifully cooked seabream al forno. The waiter brought over a kind of cake, which when I received it on my plate with ice-cream turned out to be the Italian equivalent of bread and butter pudding - and it was delicious. I would definitely return. 
After a long day’s shopping in Westfield, I walked in to Ciao Baby Cucina and the first thing I noticed is that the decor is modern but unobtrusive, designed for comfort with strategic contrasts of classic Italian charm. When I looked at their menu I saw that it comprises a fabulous choice to suit every taste bud from as little as £6.50. I could choose from a variety of antipasti such as the antipasto misto - a fabulous spread of salami, ham, wood-roasted tomatoes and peppers - followed by freshly cooked pasta and pizza, meat and fish dishes including vitello alla campagnola (crumbed veal layered with chopped spinach and mozzarella, topped with pomodoro and baked in the stone oven), or a classic bistecca alla Florentina - a 1.2kg T-bone char grilled beef steak drizzled with fresh lemon, rosemary and sea salt. The service is efficient, friendly and knowledgeable, the atmosphere relaxed and informal. Ciao Baby is an experience everyone should encounter when visiting the Westfield London Shopping Centre in white City. I was told by the manager that this is the second restaurant that entrepreneur Theo Holiasmenos has opened in the UK. Both follow the same simple concept, offering freshly prepared authentic Italian cuisine in a contemporary, relaxed setting. Ciao Baby Cucina combines deft culinary skills from its experienced chefs together with the freshest ingredients, all hand-cooked in the cucina (kitchen), to make the most delectable savoury and sweet dishes, including Italian breads, pasta, cheeses, gorgeous pastries, cakes and ice creams. To enjoy at home, I bought a little taste of the Ciao Baby Cucina Italian experience. From the irresistible delicatessen table I purchased my own piece of rustic charm from a selection that includes home-baked focaccia breads filled with caramelised onions, sun-fried tomatoes, garlic and herbs, and home-pickled Italian olives in rosemary and garlic flavorings. Stylish Italian dining mixed with a fabulous relaxed atmosphere; Ciao Baby Cucina is an obvious choice whatever the occasion. I will certainly return. 
When we visited CBC Westfield, our waiter Armando welcomed us like family and informed us of the specials with enticing detail and unrehearsed humor. We chose the baked Melanzane Parmigano and Vegetarian Meze Platter to start. The bubbling cheesy aubergine had just the right amount of tomato, chewy crispiness and the Meze selection was a palate of green beans with a sweet mint sauce, a delicious combination of roasted and pickled vegetables, and black olives and fresh cherry tomatoes for a burst of freshness. For mains, we chose a simple Penne Arrabiata and the baked fillet of kingklip with lemon butter sauce, mash and vegetables, which, in addition to being very yummy, was also very generous. For dessert, all we could find the space for was the highly recommended baked Italian cheesecake, and we shared a dense, creamy, fruity slice. Fantastic! I went to have a meal to this restaurant with a friend of mine at Westfield. It was disappointing. I ordered a fish soup and was told that there is no bread to accompany this soup and it was so salty that I was surprised that I did not get a heart attack there and then... So had to order separate bread. We ordered a caeser style salad and it was plain letuce that is the cheapest type, no other leafs... so overall really disappointing for the price... 
enjoyed the meal but they instructed me that they would e-mail the bill, this really is not good enough. I have since returned to Ireland and am waiting on my bill, which I need for my expenses through work ! 
We've come to Cristini's quite a few times since 2007 (often Valentines Day and some meals with family and friends), and have always been impressed by the warm welcome, atmospheric buzz and cosiness, without being claustrophobic. The artwork changes often, but the warm welcome of the staff always makes me feel like I'm coming home.
We asked for olives and garlic bread on arrival. The latter arrived in the form of a light and well-spun pizza dough, just how I like it, with a crisp, bubbled rim and softer centre. Normally this quantity between two would be too much before the starter, but it was so thin as to almost dissolve and was not splattered with butter and cheap dried herbs as is often the way. I selected the pure Cabernet Sauvignon for a palate challenge. I'm embarrassed to say I've forgotten what it was, but the separation between the soft start and loooong finish was huge, a real surprise. The wine engaged us all the way through the meal, without dominating any of the more subtle flavours we encountered. I thought it was pretty good for the price (£23). The food is as excellent as I have eaten as far as Italian food is concerned, each dish prepared with care, and advice given warmly without condescension. My carpaccio of beef was finely sliced with a good portion size, and, for a dish which can so often look two dimensional, stood off the plate with a delightful pile of piquant rocket, delicately sprinked with a light mustard dressing. Clare's open ravioli with lobster bisque was a delight - sea-fresh, but possibly a little too salty (always nagging people for a bite of theirs). I'm in doubt as to whether there was quite enough lobster to justify a £14.50 price, but it was wholesome and flavourful. My spinach garganelli were al dente and well-filled, scattered with soft grilled chicken breast, requiring only a little pepper to bring it out of itself. Portions were very acceptable in size. We shared dessert as I was full. This slightly cheeky request met with no concern whatsoever. The tiramisu, served in a tall glass, was more than large enough for two but was an excellent way to round off the meal, not being heavy or too rich, with definite variation in the layers. Before we left, Mr Cristini poured us each a shot of Limoncello which whilst clashing like mad with the wine was really refreshing, and not something I would have thought to order. The bill was about £85 inclusive of service and £23 for the wine. We felt that was fine for a treat. We'd like to keep the place to ourselves, really, but I thought I'd do them the justice of a fair review and wish them well. Give it a try. What a great way to spend Valentine's evening! 
Nice restaurant. Friendly service. Good food. Not too exotic, but a nice neighborhood restaurant. Our family of four enjoyed it. 
Cristini Decent food at reasonable prices, but I don't agree with all those high marks: for me it's nothing special. I'm Italian and I've tried much better food believe me. 
An amazing Valentine's Day dinner in every way. Stunning scallops, attentive service, meltingly tender hay-baked lamb and gorgeous husband. Rose petals on the tables and tasteful vases full of roses completed the picture. What more can a girl want? Not cheap but at this quality who would want it to be? If I had to choose only one restaurant to visit this year it would be this one. 
For a business dinner we dined at Incanto in Harrow on the Hill a modern, airy Italian restaurant on the High Street. The food was simply outstanding and beyond that which I have received in more well know, starred restaurants in town. I started with hand dived Scottish scallops, crab and squid ink tortellini with an anise foam. The scallops were generous in their size and beautifully cooked. This was followed by venison cooked three ways with beetroot and balsamic puree, scotchegg and a celeriac and apple galette. Again superb presentation and attention to detail shown in the combinations of the venison. The quails egg on the side was a particular favourite, though my colleagues from France couldn't quite get their head round the concept! Finally a selection of cheeses from the in house delicatessen was accompanied by a small serving of local honey. A very nice selection and each served at just the right temperature. The service was very attentive and precise without being too formal for what is a relaxed dining experience. I'd highly recommend this restaurant. 
I sneaked a peek at the reviews on this site before going the other night and was surprised to find that more hadn't been written up on Incanto. The food isn't just good but outstanding. Their passion for good quality ingredients shows up in every well crafted dish and it's clear if you talk to any of the waiting staff that the pride in their food extends to them too. As a vegetarian, I'm used to menus with a few token dishes added on as an afterthought and have eaten more cheap goat's cheese on wilted salad than I would care to count. No such thing here. The buffalo mozzarella starter was so simple but heavenly. The oozing creaminess of the cheese perfectly complimented the fresh tomatoes and a smooth basil ice cream. I was wondering how the main course could match up when I was delivered a cappaliti (spelling?) pasta filled with a unlikely sounding but delicious concoction of cavalo nero and dandelion flowers with broad bean and truffles. My friends reassured me that their wild sea bass and lamb shoulder were every bit as good as mine. The prices are not cheap but for the quality of ingredients actually amazingly good value. Well worth the trip or in my case many repeat trips. Thank you! 
First experience at Incanto. Amazing building. Was told it was an old post office. Staff informed, knowledgeable and above all friendly. I enjoy my wine, a trainee connoisseur. This restaurant has a great list which is good value. Trio of chocolate was mindblowing. 9 out of 10, service 9 out of 10 and value for the quality 10 out of 10. 
Snowed in on Harrow on the Hill and cupboards were bare so took wife along to Incanto for a meal. Unusually quiet for dinner but unsurprising with the icy local side roads being particularly treacherous. Scallops and venison were absolutely top notch and we couldn't resist sharing the vanilla pannacotta with mango which was delicious. Incanto always delivers even at a time when some restaurants can be a bit hit or miss with the slower trade. 
Super food and good atmosphere let down by the fact that it was necessary to ask who had ordered what at every stage. It really is not impossible to note on the order form. This would move the restaurant up a rung. 
It is not often that I feel the need to write a glowing report on a restaurant. However David Taylor and his fabulous chefs along with the delightful team at ‘Incanto’ do deserve a huge applause for their continued success of the Italian restaurant on Harrow on the Hill. From the very moment I started planning my 40th birthday party this summer, David Taylor ticked all the boxes, with listening to my wishes and soothing my worries. David managed to take away all the stresses and anxieties that I would normally feel in planning the perfect al fresco party. A level of intimacy was created in having my 40th party at ‘Incanto’, following a champagne drinks reception in my rose garden near the restaurant. After creating a summer menu chosen with the freshest seasonal produce available, my friends had plenty to smile about on the night with the exquisite choice of fresh Italian food. The evening started perfectly with canapés, breads and fine wines which flowed in abundance all evening. I enjoyed myself knowing my brand new kitchen was not going to be filled with empty dishes and glasses at the end of the night. I did not have to lift a finger all night, leaving me feeling further refreshed at the end of the party. ‘Incanto’ attended all of our needs even with the last minute party plans and printing of party games. The staff were impeccable in manner and worked to the highest standards we know in the industry. The personal touch was felt all evening from everyone. A sparkle of atmosphere, a professional service, and most importantly the finest food was enjoyed by all and with no worry about cost. The quality and value of the food at ‘Incanto’ is a true gem, and well deserves to be on the top of a list of fine Italian dining restaurants in London. This restaurant really cares about you the customer and delivers the highest standards of food at all times. We look forward to planning more parties in the years to come at ‘Incanto’. A huge thank you to the highly recommended Incanto Team. 
A good italian-ish restaurant Food is good, atmosphere is reasonable, the service is a bit slow even with a half full restaurant on a wednesday night. Well worth another visit 
I think it's safe to say that Incanto is the only one of its calibre in the Harrow and possibly the wider Middlesex area. Every dish shouts freshness and I can virtually tell the time of year without having to look at a calendar just by what is on the current menu. Last week I had the first of this year's English asparagus simply brushed with truffle butter. I could have eaten it for starter, main course and dessert. David and his team should be commended for running such a restaurant that is such a pleasure to go to time and time again. 
Incanto is spot on for a business lunch. Excellent food and unobtrusive service. Had a really excellent rump steak which I could have cut with a fork. Comfortable, calm surroundings and staff are happy if not busy to let you have a bigger table for two to spread your papers on. Andrew Lloyd-Webber was on the next table when I went last week. Good value deal for credit crunch times. 
Quite simply the most bland and uninspired eatery I've had the misfortune to visit. Visit three times in fact (don't ask why) but at least I feel qualified to comment on what surely cannot be a one off. Firstly the place doesn't know what it is; decor and menu suggests something between an organic pizza house (half of the stuff on the menu is not organic), a Mediterranean restaurant and a doctor's waiting room. Seriously, a quarter of the place is taken up by some cheapo sofas, ancient magazines and discarded children's toys. Had it been my choice to visit I'd have left on the strength of this alone! So of the food? More to the point, of the chefs? Hopeless and clueless. Bland generic pizza on a rubbery base, simple pasta dishes missing key ingredients (and over cooked) and starters equally bland but so varied in size some on the table could barely touch their mains afterwards. What did I enjoy? Leaving, mostly. I shall not be visiting again and would urge the restauranteur to decide what he's doing with the place then learn to do it well. I'm not surprised it's quiet but the limp wristed attempts to diversify the place have made a bad restaurant worse, not better. Avoid. 
Highly recommended. Really enjoyed the atmosphere and specially the food . Never eaten in England such fantastic real italian food. 
The best food I've ever tasted in London, warm and welcoming staff, a delightful experience. Highly recommended. Been here once before, and I'm distraught to learn that I will have to go again next week. There's no evidence of anything organic about this place at all - it smacks of a cheap advertising grab, rather than a genuine commitment to quality food. The place is grimy, noisy, and inhospitable, and the food is very sub-Pizza Express and similarly priced (apart from the felafel - because this must be the only 'Italian' restaurant in the world that serves it). One of our party last time had the banoffee pie, which had clearly been sat going stale in the cabinet for a very long time - my calzone was cold in the middle and full of lumps of congealed tasteless cheese and wet, spam-like pink meat. I felt obliged to write this review given that the comment left on 17th April is so clearly written by a shill. 
The best food I've ever tasted in London, warm and welcoming staff, a delightful experience. Highly recommended.
Ate there recently - what a disappointment. Used to be a regular haunt of ours but has been taken over by a new owner. I don't think the mix of Turkish and Italian is working - had dirge like Arabic music for the whole meal - very depressing. You would at least expect falafel to be good but it wasn't. Should have know when we walked in that the place which always had been bustling was empty. Steer clear till the next new owner, which shouldn't be too long. 
We started going here as the staff seemed nice and friendly, its open late and the pizza is great... However, we had a rough time of it the last time we went when the 'moist' carrot cake that they promised us was stale and the banoffee pie was awful. We actually asked the manager to recommend a desert to us beforehand and whilst he did try to steer us towards the carrot cake.....he should never have attempted to serve either of those deserts to us as they were clearly unacceptable. He even went to the hassle of layering the banoffee pie with banana and must have noticed the many 'cracks' in it...... I informed him politely about the pie and he gave a small arguement (I know that he knew so he should never have argued at all) but did end up taking the cost of it off our bill, I didn't even bother to go into the stale carrot cake issue as I just wanted to have a nice evening. Its a shame because the pizza really is nice but we wont go back now because if they are serving these desserts then what other corners do they cut? 
New management, great service, staff seems keen to please and food is good quality. Portions are reasonable size and so are prices. Recommended. Our second trip under the new management was good, the manager was not happy with the size of the portion and ordered a new one without giving us a chance to complain ! 
I have finally found a place where I eat the way I like and the staff is nice, friendly and efficient! Try pizza basilico and yogurt pannacotta with berries sauce! Espresso like in Italy! Great!!! 
I've been to the red pepper last night and had an amazing experience! The restaurant was full with a great atmosphere! We been set in a nice table by the window and leaded throught the menu in a very professional way. We tried the special home made ravioli stuffed with potato,mint and pecorino in a well made fresh tomato sauce and the australian rib eye steak cooked to perfection! We've been very looked after from each member of the stuff from the start to the end of our staying! Try the tiramisu and the poached pear with mascarpone and amaretto! The manageress offered the taxi service and we spent all the journey from maida vale to belzise park talking about the wonderful food we had and the staff we had just left there! Simply perfect! Thanks very much red pepper,see you definitely next week!
Nice Friendly and delicious fresh food to good range of wines/drinks. Excellent Value for money 
I went back to Red Pepper last night having moved from London six months ago. It was like going home. Apart from a pleasant change in the wine list giving options of superb wine by the glass and carafe, the menu was still refreshingly innovative, simple but cooked to perfection. The pizzas remain best in London. I was happy to see the friendly faces of the regular staff that make Red Pepper even more the perfect neighbourhood restaurant. Now if I could beam Red Pepper to Devon with me life would be even more perfect. 
I used to visit Red Pepper regularly since it opened. Sadly it is not the place it used to be and I have given it more than one try after going back after few years. I remember a sweet manager Gianni and his team of waiters from Sardinia. These were the times where eating in RP was an utter pleasure - great food, superb wine list and exceptional service. Gianni had time for everyone and even if the restaurant was packed more than twice a night, service was spot on. Food was coming out of the kitchen on time and everyone had a smile on the face. These times are long gone and unless they find and bring back the staff from the past, Maida Vale will turn its back on Red Pepper. Gianni and the team - you are greatly missed! 
It's a shame about this place as the pizza here is the best I've eaten in a long time. Very flavorsome and interesting toppings. However, I would never go back again for a few reasons: none of the other food is worth trying, the risotto isn't very good. The staff are rude and service is poor. The tables are too close together even by the rest of London's standards, you get the feeling they are just squeezing too many people into too small a space to make as much money as possible but to the detriment of the customer. We felt really cramped and there were only two other tables in on a Sunday lunch time. We ordered 3 beers and saw the waitress pour 2 bottles of beer into 3 glasses and then charged for 3! This to me is a real disrespect to paying customers. Just the fact that it even occurred to them to do this . I thought a way to get around this would be to get a takeaway from here, but when we tried that the waiting staff were so rude we ended up walking out and not ordering anything. They have great pizzas so all of this is a real shame. I won't be going back until they sort the service, seating and tightness out!
Very good experience at the restaurant on Tuesday night! Nice food, good wine and great staff! Try pizza Luna and passion fruit cheese-cake!! We 'll be back soon!  
I hadn't been here for a few years, and after last night I won't be going back. Worst thing: tables so close together you touch elbows with the table next to you. Second worst thing: underseasoned, bland food for rather impressive prices. Third worst thing: amateurish service. £51 for two, one main course, shared dessert and two small glaases of wine ("we only serve wine in 125 ml") is far too expensive for a meal Pizza Express could have done better. 
All the reviews from 2009 are accurate but dont even go near this now. The new manager is the worst person to be in that role. All the waiters shiver in her presence and she says stuff like: this is the best our fridge will do (while serving white wine). If I took the time to tell everyone that a particular dish will take a long time to prepare , I will not be able to run the place. Go ahead, write your reviews, I dont care. I've been here for 16 years and have not seen you (we have gone there at least 20 times in last 6 years) Anyways, we ended up with a nice evening at the restaurant across the street. All tables around us swore never to come back to the place, unless this woman was being hormonal, there is no excuse for her behavior. 
i had lunch with a business associate here earlier this week. quite an old restaurant in seventies styly, however, very friendly and fast service. the food was good but not fantastic, i had mushroo/truffle penne and my friend had calves liver followed by nice fresh fruit and sorbet. all in all very good but not as great as it apparently used to be. that being said scored highly on service. excellent. 
Well from outside it looks great but as soon as you walk in its like stepping back in time. This place is so dated, the crab I set next to was so dusty! Anyway we waited 45 minutes for one prawn cocktail, which to be far was ok, not great. then the mains came, well paying £16 on average for a main is expensive, so paying extras for the veg and potatoes was a joke. Mine was so chicken with mushrooms and was so salty, I could not eat it. Nobody approached us during the meal , so when they came to take the plates I explained the food was awful. No sorry , nothing. When the bill came the lady said yes it was wrong and took it off the bill. Dated, miserable staff, and awful food AVOID. Nandos across the road is better! 
I agree with Jessica. This restaurant is my default for business entertaining and some occasions with close friends. The food is consistently good and the Patrone and his staff most welcoming. The prices are consistent with the quality, especially for central London. I always leave with a smile on my face from enjoying this sllgtly dowdy (and charming) but fulfilling restaurant. 
I went to Gran Paradiso last week to celebrate my grandson's 17th Birthday as well as my daughter in law's Birthday. I heard they are "good" on mushroom dishes (owner has written a book on mushrooms) We all loved the place and the food and shall return ,no doubt about that! The owner was present throughout as well as his charming wife...they 've had the restaurant for 40 years and of all the Italian restaurants here and in Venice, I loved this one the most! 
It was a special occasion for my wife and me so we ventured on to Wilton Road from our nearby hotel looking for a restaurant to start the evening off with a fine meal. As we came across the Gran Paradiso we looked at the menu displayed outside and as lovers of Italian food we made our way to the front door which was locked. I assumed this was due to the earlier England football match. The staff eventually noticed that we were trying to get in and unlocked the door for us. Not a good start. On being seated we were as usual offered a bread roll which we accepted and went on to choose our meal. The starters were very high quality and to the standard we were use too. Then came the main meal we both opted for a steak £16 each and vegetables at £3.50 per portion. The steaks were very small to say the least and having paid for vegetables I was less than impressed with the quality and quantity. This was to be the main meal but it was woeful. The overall service was not that good as we felt throughout the staff were waiting for us to vacate our table so that they could get the next customers in. for all this we paid £85.20 which broken down I believe should have been closer to £70.00 including service charge.
I called in advance to book a table for 14 people at a quiet time (5.45pm-7pm). I was told this was ok. The evening started off on a sour note, as the managers approached us and started to severely tell me off for asking if I could pay for the drinks seperately. From that moment on, even though they were apparently 'very busy upstairs' the managers hovered around our table, making us feel extremely unwanted and uncomfortable. The food was amazing though, and the waiters were fine, it was just the fowl attitude of the managers that means I will NEVER be setting foot in that place again. They even tried to charge me service charge after treating us so badly! They said 'you have to pay it in a place like this, this isn't Nandos' - I wish I HAD gone to Nandos after all! In the end the manager called me 'offensive' for refusing to pay the service charge. So if you want to go for a pre-theatre dinner I don't suggest this one! Try queuing at Prezzo or something.
What a lovely little place. Me and the little woman were very impressed. The couple who run the place are an institution by themselves and they far from seeming miserable where in fact, efficent and brisk. Hurrah for people who do their job properly. great meal and pretty cheap. We will be coming back soon. 
Suspect half the trouble with reviews of this restaurant is that the more you go there the more you know what to order. The fish is always excellent, as are the home-made pasta dishes and the calf's liver - your choice of cooking time and method. I have never in 20-odd years of going here had an unripe melon with my ham when I order this as a starter, and on the whole the salads and side dishes are good - but again knowing what to order is key. The wine list is a joy to read, and the wines very drinkable to excellent. The menu is pretty static but the 'specials' make it endlessly changing with the seasons. I dread the time when the couple who run this wonderful restaurant retire. 
I went for another memorable dinner on the 12th September. Fantastic food and great value wines, Alessandro (owner) was on great form. Suggest the reviewer who rates the "Head waiter - old guy" needs to remember this is the owner of over 30 years who to regular customers is courteous and will offer off the menu wines which he has an interesting variety. If the reviewer didn't want to pay 10% service then they remove it from the bill, don't complain as it is discretionary and can be ultimately removed. Have the last laugh and frequent other restaurants please. Very pleased to see the latest review is complementary and reflects an accurate picture of the restaurant. 
I ate at this restaurant last night and thought the food was fantastic. I had the raviola and it was delicious. I could taste the fresh basil in it. I didn't find the portion size too small. In fact I thought it was just right. I hate being served huge portions of food in a restaurant, which tends to put me off the food. I thought it was very reasonably priced as well for the quality of food and the extremely pleasant atmosphere (especially for Central London).and nice decor I loved the opera music they played as background music. Really added to the ambience. As far as the 10 percent added on, I prefer that restaurants do that as I feel uncomfortable with tipping. Most restaurants that add on a tip seem to add on at least 12 percent and sometimes 15 percent. If you don't think you got good service you don't have to pay the tip. I found the service quite efficient although I must admit our waiter seemed a bit miserable. Maybe he had had a bad day. In spite of that he gave good service. I can't stand having the waiter or server acting as though he or she is my new best friend, telling me his/her name and hovering around our table all night. The older gentleman came over to our table and was very friendly without being obtrusive. I wanted to order two starters but he suggested I just have one, which turned out to be just enough food. Two starters would have filled me up. Personally, I very much enjoyed eating there and have recommended it to several of my wifes. I will certainly go back there again even though it means a long commute for me on the underground. Lucky locals who can go there all the time! Keep up the good work and the great food. 
We went to Locale for a late lunch at the weekend. The food was very good; it was simple but very tasty, 'honest', food. What was very disappointing however was the service. When my friend asked whether it was possible to have a larger serving of the Insalata Caprese, she was asked: 'You mean double?' When my friend hesitated and I asked whether it wasn't possible for her to have her Caprese at the size of a main course, the waitress turned to me and said: 'Yes, but I will charge her double' (literally). Given that attitude I am not sure I would go back; although that's a pity, as otherwise it seems like the perfect place for a quick, decent, warm lunch in the centre of London. 
I found Locale County Hall by mistake, i was trying to go to the London Eye..It was looking good from outside and i was hungry so i decided to have a quick lunch. Well it made my day! Really tasty spaghetti vongole and a nice glass of pinot grigio on their terrace facing the County Hall building. What a location too. just walking distance from westminster and London Eye. thanks Locale.
I've being dining at Locale with my boyfriend recently and we had Seafood Pasta and a steak. The food was great, perfectly cooked and well seasoned. Also the service was friendly and efficient and everything arrived promptly. We skipped dessert. We would definitely recommended it
I live in County Hall and have meant to go to Locale for some time, to establish if it could become my "local" Italian. It was a bit difficult to find reviews for (concerning) and part of a chain (often not good news), but tonight, finding myself at a loose end and hearing about the "famous" 50% off steak on Monday offer, I decided to give it a go. Big mistake.
Summary: Service - completely overstretched. I'm sure the girls serving are well intentioned, but they are simply too few in number (typical chain problem) and hence you're kept waiting for long stretches, even before you've sat down. Food - Poor. I ordered a sirloin steak (it WAS Steak Mondays...) and it was dry and tough. No excuse for it. ANYONE can cook a steak. The mashed potatoes were extremely salty, and the green beans came in two markedly different shades - half were fresh, and half were old. Ambience - most of the clientele seem to be tourists hoovered up from South Bank. Including lots of families, with shrieking bawling kids. Great if that's your thing, not if it's not. In conclusion, I'll never go again. And it's literally a 15 second walk from my front door. 
Fantastic place to go and try the home made food. Good selection of wines and coctails. Friendly staff and good service. You can use this restaurant in many occasions. Well Done Locale Team. 
Half-term, i went to the London Eye with wife and kids. After the flight we were looking for a restaurant. We found Locale..they have a nice and cheap kids menu and a good selection of pizzas and pastas (italian restaurant!!!!). Really good and i didn't spend much.
Went on thursday night at Locale, fortunately i booked a table because the restaurant was packed! The service was fast and attentive, the food was tasty and a they have a good selection of wines. Will come back.
Beware that that 'locale vouchers' are not all they seem. We booked online to go back to the restaurant on the 9th Feb. Our booking was not registered but luckily they had a table free.The service was slow but all was okay until we went to pay and were told that not all the vouchers we had could be redeemed and as a 'courtesy' they would take £30 worth. We debated the point and the manager got involved. He agreed to take £50 of vouchers enven though this was not the 'policy' on the agreement we "did not come back!!". Fine with us - we will eat somewhere were the staff have better manners! 
This is the fourth time I've been back to this restaurant in as many weeks. Food and service has been consistenly excellent. My favourite is calamari to start and seafood platter which has all my favourite fish on one plate! Eton Mess rounded my dinner off perfectly. Its good to find such consistency - this restaurant hits the spot every time. I'll be going back very soon!  
I went to Locale with my girlfriend on Saturday night. It was a sound meal all round - the linguine frutti de mare was delicious. My girlfriend felt the salmon, whilst tasty, could have had a few more vegetables with it - unless of course this was the point that you have to order a side dish with the main - but no indication of this was given at the time or ordering. The choice of wine was ample and the prices were reasonable. If you happen to be on the south side of Westminster Bridge and are looking for a decent Italian restaurant that is not a tourist trap with extortionate charges, look no further! 

Jamies Italian - Oxford

      1. Jamies Italian
    * Jamie's original Italian eatery
    *
          o Italian
          o Moderately Priced
          o Oxford City Centre (Central Oxford)
    * Nile Expert Tip: There is a no bookings policy for parties of less than 6 so try and go along a bit before you want to...

Mario's Pizzeria Trattoria - Oxford

      2. Mario's Pizzeria Trattoria
    * Good quality Italian
    *
          o Italian
          o Cheap

Fratellis Pizzeria - Oxford

      3. Fratellis Pizzeria
    * A family run Italian pizza place.
    *
          o Italian
          o Expensive
          o Cowley

Fasta Pasta - Oxford

      4. Fasta Pasta
    * Rome in your home
    *
          o Italian
          o Cheap

Luna Caprese - Oxford

      5. Luna Caprese
    * Fishing Village Feel
    *
          o Italian
          o Cheap
          o North Oxford

Branca - Oxford
reserve with OpenTable

      6. Branca
    * An Italian Bar & Trattoria
    *
          o Italian
          o Affordable

Cibo - Oxford

      7. Cibo
    * A smart and efficient Italian restaurant that serves great coffee.
    *
          o Mediterranean
          o Affordable
          o Summertown

Jacobs & Field - Oxford

      8. Jacobs & Field
    * A new wine bar/bistro/cafe/deli/grocers!
    *
          o European
          o Affordable
          o Headington

Pizza Express - Oxford

      9. Pizza Express
    * An established, reliable chain restaurant
    *
          o Italian
          o Moderately Priced
          o Oxford City Centre (Central Oxford)

Gino's - Oxford

      10. Gino's
    * Simply excellent Italian
    *
          o Italian
          o Cheap
          o Oxford City Centre (Central Oxford)

“OK food, friendly waitress”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: 17 Mar 2011 - New

I didn’t have any expectations prior to going to this restaurant. Lovely interior and welcoming atmosphere on the whole. AMAAAZING antipasti, beautiful colours and full of flavour. They serve the antipasti on a tray stacked on tins tomatoes, very original. The bread selection (with a drizzle of olive oil and dried herbs) was also delicious. The waitress was very helpful...

“Not bad”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: 15 Mar 2011 - New

First impressions - stunning interior, and great fun to be in it. The staff were friendly, helpful and alert to everything we needed (a family party aged from their thirties up to mid-seventies.) We visited on a Monday lunchtime and the ground floor was more or less full by the time we left, with a pleasant buzz, but really irritating...

“Disappointing evening”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: 13 Mar 2011 - New

I visited Jamie's Italian last week and was very disappointed with the restaurant. Before arranging to go to the restaurant I check to see if reservations were needed. The site makes clear that you don't need to book, however when we arrived we had to wait 50 minutes before we would be seated. (this was a late Wednesday evening) We... 

“Hair in my food and an upset stomach the day after - avoid!”
1 of 5 stars
Date of review: 3 Mar 2011

I was so disappointed when I visited this restaurant, as I had high expectations. I had the fish appetiser to start and these thin slithers were just rubbery and didn't taste of anything other that the lemon dressing. My husband had the mushrooms to start but these were just like the left over bits. For the main my husband had... 

“The menu promises much;the reality was a total disappointment.”
1 of 5 stars
Date of review: 1 Mar 2011
1
person found this review helpful

7 of us went last Sunday evening-5 adults and 2 children,and we were really looking forward to sampling Jamie's food,the descriptions of which do set one's taste-buds tingling.I had some crispy rice ball thingy;it was horrible! We had a meat plank and a veggie one,some 'best ever olives',which were big,nothing else. The meat plank had 2 bits of run-of-the-mill salami... 

“Horrendous AVOID AVOID AVOID”
1 of 5 stars
1 more review of Jamie's Italian by sharpG:

    *
      “overrated, over hyped”
      2 of 5 stars 6 August 2010

Date of review: 27 Feb 2011

This is my third and definitely my last visit to Jamies Italian, Leeds. I returned hoping things had changed! We arrived at 8.00pm to be told the wait was 1 hour 20mins. It was unfortunately too late to try and get in else where, we were left with little choice other than stick out the cold in the queue outside!... 

“A bit 'meh'”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: 26 Feb 2011
1
person found this review helpful

This our third visit to Jamie's in Leeds. The fantastic experience we had at the Jamie's in Bath causing us to give it, I think, more chances than we would have given any other similar establishment. We will not be back. I think that one of the main problems with the Leeds version is that they have crammed far too... 

“Avoid!”
2 of 5 stars
Date of review: 23 Feb 2011

Working in Leeds city centre I have yet to find anyone have a positive word about jamies. 'it's ok, overpriced and trading on the name' seems to be the general opinion. Tonight was my second visit to jamies, like the first a very disappointing experience. Service slow, had to ask at least twice each time we wanted another drink, thru... 

“Poor under cooked food dont waste your time here”
2 of 5 stars
Date of review: 21 Feb 2011

Went for Sunday lunch, the place was buzzing and we were sat down straight away, the kitchen is open plan and was very noisy plates being thrown down near the dish washing area lots of shouting from the chefs. The menu is not great but in the end chose Crispy Squid and my husband had Bruschetta with Crab. Both dishes... 

“Great service, but food is nothing special”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: 20 Feb 2011

Having held off going to Jamie's Italian in Leeds (mainly as I didn't want to be disappointed by all the hype) I went recently with two friends for a girly catch-up. Downstairs is between a bar area and dining and upstairs is all dining. Waiting for my friends to arrive, I sat in the bar area and had a glass... 

Zizzi

16-17 Friar Gate , DE1 1BX

Zizzi is a chain of traditional Italian pizza and pasta restaurants that cook all their pizzas...

3/5

3 reviews
Zizzi - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
2
Antibo

21 Midland Road , DE1 2SL

Antibo is an award-winning chain of restaurants serving a variety of Italian cuisine, including...

3.333333333/5

2 reviews
Antibo - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
3
Bistango Restaurant

40 St. Peters Churchyard , DE1 1NN

The Bistango Restaurant is set in a former chapel building and serves authentic Italian dishes.

2/5

2 reviews
Bistango Restaurant - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
Pamir Pizza

134 Ashbourne Road , DE22

Pamir Pizza

0/5
Pamir Pizza - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
4
Little Frankie's Restaurant

39 Cornmarket , DE1 2DG

0/5
Little Frankie's Restaurant - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
5
Antibo Restaurant

21, Midland Rd , DE1 2SL

0/5
Antibo Restaurant - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
6
PizzaExpress

Unit Su321, Westfield Centre , DE1 2PP

0/5
PizzaExpress - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
7
Cucina Cafe Restaurant

26-28, Green Lane , DE1 1RP

0/5
Cucina Cafe Restaurant - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
8
Numero Due

2, Borough St , DE74 2LA

0/5
Numero Due - Restaurants in Derby, Derby
9
Pasta4u

Eagle Shopping Centre Copecastle Square , DE1 2NQ 
Scalini Fedeli

100% of 6 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $60

Neighborhood: TRIBECA

Northern Italian cuisine is given the royal treatment at this infinitely romantic number, a place where words like..
Il Mulino

100% of 2 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $45

Neighborhood: WEST VILLAGE

Known for the large portions of garlic-heavy, Italian cuisine, Il Mulino is definitely a popular spot among New York..
Trattoria L'incontro

100% of 2 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $28

Neighborhood: QUEENS

L'incontro makes a terrific argument for an excursion. Located in Astoria, this eatery is dressed for style and comfort..
Erminia

100% of people (well, based on one vote!) liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $28

Neighborhood: UPPER EAST SIDE

This Upper East Sider features fabulous homestyle Italian cuisine and a cozy atmosphere, including candle lit tables,...
Al Di La

80% of 5 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $18

Neighborhood: BROOKLYN

The husband-wife duo of Emiliano Coppa and Anna Klinger has won over the heart, soul and appetite of Brooklyn's Park...
Babbo

75% of 12 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $29

Neighborhood: WEST VILLAGE

Tucked away on Waverly Place in a former coach house, Babbo offers Italian in its purest form. Known for its classic...
Roberto's

66% of 3 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $20

Neighborhood: BRONX

One of the borough's best, you'll find Roberto's terra cotta facade nestled between the park and the Bronx's version of...
Felidia

50% of 2 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $45

Neighborhood: MIDTOWN EAST

Felidia is a multi-level Italian eatery centrally located between Second and Third Avenues. This renovated townhouse...
Il Giglio

33% of 3 people liked this

Cuisine: European, Italian

Average Main Course Price: $29

Neighborhood: TRIBECA

If you are looking for traditional Italian with full flavor then you have come to the right place. The small, formal... 
Alto

Alto combines wide expanses of glass, concrete, backlit wine racks and green-apple chairs to create a sleek, lofty, and... 
Basso56
#1 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 216 reviews
Price: $ 40

    * “ Simple, outstanding food. ” Mar 16, 2011
    * “ Wonderful ” Mar 15, 2011

Le Bernardin
#2 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 266 reviews
Price: $41 - $90
Cuisines: French, Seafood
Good for: Romance, Doing business, Special occasions

    * “ Amazing food and service ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ Best Meal I Have Ever Had! ” Mar 4, 2011

Patzeria Perfect Pizza
#3 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 169 reviews
Cuisines: Italian, Pizza
Dining options: Breakfast/Brunch, Delivery

    * “ Nice pizza but I prefer the $1 ones! ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ perfect Patzeria pizza ” Mar 9, 2011

Land
#4 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 42 reviews
Price: $20 - $25
Cuisines: Thai

    * “ Delicious food at a great price ” Mar 17, 2011
    * “ Very Good ” Feb 28, 2011

Scalini Fedeli
#5 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 75 reviews
Price: $41 - $80
Cuisines: Italian
Good for: Romance, Special occasions

    * “ Amazing restaurant. Best food I've eaten in new york ” Mar 5, 2011
    * “ Amazing ” Feb 28, 2011

Per Se
#6 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 174 reviews
Price: $25 - $100

    * “ Get rather a ticket to france instead of eating at Per Se ” Mar 14, 2011
    * “ The ultimate ” Feb 23, 2011

Capizzi
#7 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 48 reviews
Price: $10 - $30
Cuisines: Pizza

    * “ Just like being in Italy ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ The best Pizza in NYC without question ” Mar 10, 2011

Levain Bakery
#8 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 65 reviews

    * “ Dont waste your time ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ Yum Yum Yum ” Mar 13, 2011

Keens Steakhouse
#9 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 177 reviews
Price: $25 - $100
Cuisines: American, English, Steakhouse

    * “ Best steak in N.Y.C. bar none. ” Mar 17, 2011
    * “ Best steak ever! ” Mar 16, 2011

Il corso
#10 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 25 reviews
Price: $31 - $50
Cuisines: Italian

    * “ Really an exellent find ” Mar 9, 2011
    * “ Excellent food and service ” Mar 1, 2011

Jean Georges
#11 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 58 reviews
Price: $25 - $170
Cuisines: French, Fusion, American
Dining options: Dinner

    * “ Our favourite meal in NY! We will be back :) ” Mar 14, 2011
    * “ NEW FAVORITE !!!!! ” Mar 2, 2011

Daniel
#12 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 217 reviews
Price: $25 - $100

    * “ Very Good... But ” Mar 15, 2011
    * “ Best dining expeireince I can remember, thought I was in Paris ” Feb 24, 2011

Gramercy Tavern
#13 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 328 reviews
Price: $30 - $80

    * “ Always enjoyable, always impressive ” Mar 17, 2011
    * “ Best meal ever ” Feb 22, 2011

Trattoria Trecolori
#14 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 344 reviews
Price: $25 - $100

    * “ Great location, service and food ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ Excellent service, great quality food ” Mar 12, 2011

Nougatine at Jean Georges
#15 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 78 reviews
Price: $50 - $80
Cuisines: French
Dining options: Breakfast/Brunch

    * “ Disappointing ” Feb 14, 2011
    * “ forgettable ” Feb 8, 2011

Tony's Di Napoli - Midtown
#16 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 129 reviews
Price: $30 - $40
Cuisines: Italian

    * “ Suprisingly great ” Mar 16, 2011
    * “ Best Italian I've ever visited! ” Mar 13, 2011

The Capital Grille-New York City, Time-Life Building
#17 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 17 reviews
Price: $20 - $80
Cuisines: Dessert

    * “ Happy Birthday/Anniversary/Engagement - makes you happy being there! ” Mar 6, 2011
    * “ Excellent restaurant ” Feb 20, 2011

The Meatball Shop
#18 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 24 reviews

    * “ 10 out of 10 rating! ” Mar 8, 2011
    * “ Awesome meal ” Feb 20, 2011

Carbone Ristorante Italiano
#19 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4.5 of 5 stars based on 59 reviews
Cuisines: Italian

    * “ I love it! ” Mar 17, 2011
    * “ very good italian food ” Mar 8, 2011

Shake Shack
#20 of 6,946 restaurants in New York City
4 of 5 stars based on 235 reviews
Price: $ 20

    * “ Great food - pricey for what you get and slow service! ” Mar 13, 2011
    * “ Best Milkshake You'll Find ” Mar 12, 2011

New York is often referred to as the home of world's greatest chefs. Most of the expensive New York City restaurants are booked the majority of the year and you typically need a rfeservation a month or two in advance to dine there. These New York City Restaurants include Masa, Alain Ducasse at the Essex House Restaurant, Kuruma Zushi, Per Se, daniel restaurant New York City, Le Bernardin, Sugiyama, MEGU, Jean Georges and Atelier. Masa, a Japanese restaurant in Time Warner Center, is a famous New York City Restaurant that has only 26 seats. Per Se is another New York City restaurant where diners can enjoy Thomas Keller's Napa Valley cuisine.

Famous New York City Restaurants:

    * The Four Seasons
      99 E. 52nd St. (btw. Park Ave. & Lexington Ave.),754-9494
      M-F 12pm-9:30pm, Sa 5pm-11:30pm
    * La Grenouille
      3 E. 52nd St. (bet. 5th & Madison), 752-1495
      T-Sa 12pm-2:30pm & 5:30pm-11:15pm
    * Le Cirque
      455 Madison Ave. 303-7788
      M-Sa 11:45am-12am, Su 5:30pm-12am
    * Lutece
      249 E. 50th St. (btw. 2nd Ave. & 3rd Ave.), 752-2225
      M 5:30pm-10pm, Tu-F 12pm-2pm & 5:30pm-10pm, Sa 5:30pm-10pm
    * The Rainbow Room
      30 Rockefeller Plaza (btw. 49th St. & 50th St., 65th Fl.), 632-5000
    * Sardi's
      234 W. 44th St. (btw. Broadway & 8th Ave.), 221-8440
      T-Sa 11:30am-12:30am, Su-M 11am-9pm
    * Tavern on the Green
      1 W. 67th St. (@ CPW), 873-3200
      M-F 12pm-3pm & 5pm-11:30pm, Sa-Su 10am-3pm & 5pm-11:30pm
    * Russian Tea Room
      150 W 57th Street, 974-2111

New York City Sea Food Restaurants
New York City Restaurant Le Bernardin serves the best seafood. The menu here has categories on their menu such as "Almost Raw", "Barely Touched" and "Lightly Cooked". Customers dining in this New York City restaurant enjoy the best aspects of seafood.

Japanese Restaurants in New York City/ Sushi Restaurant New York City

If you want to experience some of the finest Japanese dining, the MEGU is one of the best New York City restaurants that imports its ingredients for added authenticity. The menu here is broken up into 11 different groupings.

The New York City Restaurant Atelier has a creative and award-winning menu. The unique cuisine of Atelier has been inspired by the chef's home in the south of France.

Kuruma Zushi is a New York City Restaurant that flies its fish all the way from Japan. It makes the Sushi served here world-class, the restaurant all the more unique, and diners are impressed.

Italian restaurants New York City
There are many good Italian restaurants in New York City. Serafina is one of the best Italian restaurants in New York City. Grilled Calamari, tuna steak, and brick oven pizza are some dishes they offer. You can refer to a New York Restaurant City Guide for choosing the best New York City restaurants for each type of cuisine; French, Japanese, Italian etc.

New York City Restaurant Guide
New York City Restaurant Guide lists restaurants such as Tao restaurant, Gascogne, Olives, Cassa La Femme North, Dos Caminos, Poetessa, Blue Water Grill, Khyber Pass etc.

Carmines Restaurant in New York City
Carmines restaurant New York City is an award-winning restaurant and the first choice of many New Yorkers. The menu of this New York City restaurant includes Italian and continental cuisine. With the abundance of notable New York City restaurants, it's difficult not to enjoy an excellent dining experience.

New York City restaurant reviews available at Mapsofworld.com help you plan your sumptuous dinner tonight. Our reviews are written after thorough research on the recipes and dishes offered by the restaurants in this city.
New York City Restaurant Reviews

View all

Ready to take a bite out of New York? Hope you've come hungry. In a city where creativity is expressed in many ways, the food scene takes center stage, with literally thousands of ways to get an authentic taste of what Gotham is all about. Whether they're lining up at street stands, gobbling down legendary deli and diner grub, or chasing a coveted reservation at the latest celebrity-chef venue, New Yorkers are a demanding, yet appreciative audience. More »
Fodor's Choice
New York City Fodor's Choice Restaurants

More about Fodor's Choice »

    * Adour Alain Ducasse
          o $$$$
          o Midtown East
    * Daniel
          o $$$$
          o Upper East Side

    * Hundred Acres
          o $$
          o SoHo
    * Kampuchea Restaurant
          o $
          o Lower East Side

    * Momofuku Ko
          o $$$$
          o East Village
    * Shake Shack
          o ¢
          o Upper West Side

View all Fodor's Choice

Advertisement
Find New York City Restaurants
Best Bets

    * Brunch

By Price

    * ¢ - Cheap
    * $ - Budget

    * $$ - Mid-range
    * $$$ - Upscale

    * $$$$ - Expensive

By Cuisine

    * American
    * Asian
    * Austrian
    * Austrian/German
    * Barbecue
    * Bistro
    * Brasserie
    * Brazilian
    * Burger
    * Cafe
    * Cambodian
    * Chinese
    * Deli
    * Diner

    * Eastern European
    * Eclectic
    * Ethiopian
    * French
    * Gastropub
    * Greek
    * Indian
    * Italian
    * Japanese
    * Korean
    * Latin
    * Malaysian
    * Mediterranean
    * Mexican

    * Middle Eastern
    * Modern French
    * New American
    * Pizza
    * Polish
    * Scandinavian
    * Seafood
    * Southern
    * Spanish
    * Steak
    * Steakhouse
    * Turkish
    * Vegetarian
    * Vietnamese

By Location

    * Brooklyn
    * Chelsea
    * Chinatown
    * East Village
    * Financial District
    * Flatiron District
    * Gramercy
    * Greenwich Village

    * Harlem
    * Little Italy
    * Lower East Side
    * Meatpacking District
    * Midtown East
    * Midtown West
    * Murray Hill
    * NoLita

Fine Italian Restaurant
"Delicious food in casual, comfortable yet classy restaurant surroundings. Overall, a great experience. Best Escargot Appetizer ever. Hubby had 'Penne Bolognese' which rivaled any Italian Nona’s dish. Reasonably priced, comprehensive wine list. The red snapper special was fresh and perfectly prepared with fresh garlic and tomatoes... Yummy tiramisu for dessert! Go!" – Restaurant DB Review
Italian American Cuisine
"I've had mussels, steak, eggplant Parmigiana, martinis, brushetti, pasta, etc...you can not go wrong with anything on that menu! Karen, the owner, is an absolute doll and she makes you feel like you are the most important customer/friend in the place. The restaurant staff is as well very friendly. Going there again this weekend!" - Carolyn, N.Y.
    Quote: I've been here once. Nice interior but tiny, tiny, tiny. Everything was OK - not extra ordinary - just don't know what the great hu haa is about. …


Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOQ3a4w
On our first night in New York we broke one of my cardinal rules. We had a meal at a venue not just on a square but on Times Square. I have always been of the opinion that when you eat right next door to a famous

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxORlde2
I came here during restaurant week. The food is pretty good here. The staff is polite, and the restaurant is very nice.I would come back again…

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOTAb3o
Becco is my favourite restaurant recommendation from my weekend spent in New York City. Whenever I hear of someone heading to the Big Apple I always forward them the website (http://www.becconyc.com/index2.htm)…

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOUabcd
We were able to get a seat right away and the service was excellent. We felt very welcomed and the food was outstanding. We were all very pleased with our meals and drinks, and the prices were very reasonable.

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOViXw8
Itsy bitsy ‘Ino’s is the perfect combination of fancy-shmancy wine bar and comfy-womfy neighborhood hangout. Funky alternative music sets the tone while you dilly-dally over the extensive wine list

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOXFV1b
Are you looking for one of NYC's most authentic Italian pastry shops and coffee bars? Then don't bother going to Little Italy...head instead for the East Village. Here, just off 11th St. is where you'll find

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOYRJ4f
Fun Place - Great FoodMy husband and I took the sage advice of our hotel's concierge about where to catch a late dinner after our evening arrival in New York City. With assurance, he recommended Landmarc. Since…

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOZa1uY
It was Christmas Eve, when we decided to give the Rock Center Café a try. First we had another restaurant on our mind for dinner. We decided on the last minute to go to the Top of the Rock. Rock Center Café is…

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOaknSj
This place has great service and awesome food, it's a must if you are in New York.…

Read more: http://www.igougo.com/dining-l590-c23-New_York_Italian_restaurants.html#ixzz1GxOborQ7
“Very good food and NY attitude”
4 of 5 stars
Date of review: Dec 22, 2010

If you are visiting or living in vegas this is a nice little joint to eat at. They have hero's, great pizza, tastykakes and italian ices. It's like stoppin in at your local deli back home !!! KUDOS on the excellent freaking cheese cake!!! No where near the strip so dont expect them to deliver if you are visiting. “Well worth the Drive off the Strip”
5 of 5 stars
Date of review: Mar 9, 2010

We found this gem after a long day of hiking Red Rock Canyon while on our way back to the Strip. We now make a point to visit every time we are in Las Vegas. Its acually run by some Canadian Italians from Saskatchewan (Big Roughneck Fans) and they are some of the most friendly people ever. It is true... “Favorite Italian casual dining spot”
4 of 5 stars
Date of review: Mar 8, 2008

My wife and I have tried Rocco's ever since Montesano's closed down. Until now, we both raved over Montesano's food and taste. HOWEVER, since we have visited Rocco's, there is absolutely no comparison. Their marinara sauce as well as the meat sauce is beyond reproach, just like my brother-in-law's mother used to make, and she was old country. We highly... “sandwich was great, but not NY deli”
3 of 5 stars
Date of review: Feb 21, 2008

The roast beef sandwich I tried was definitely generous, full of lean, lean roast beef. I think there was cheese, not sure. The bread was burned. The sandwich was great, but definitely not NY style. “Best Calzones”
5 of 5 stars
Date of review: Dec 11, 2007

Best Calzones “Fantastic Italian Food!”
5 of 5 stars
Date of review: Sep 4, 2005
4
people found this review helpful

As an ex-patriot New Yorker, I am always searching for great Italian food and especially pizza on the west coast. I usually do not venture off the Strip in Vegas, but I'd heard about Rocco's and had to try it. It's the real thing! The best!! Rocco's is an unassuming place located in a strip mall; it looks just like... Best Italian restaurant in NYC

Hi all,
it is my very first post and I think it will be controversial...sort of opening a can of warms...
I am searching for the best italian restaurant in NYC.
By best I am refering to
1. Clean
2. Truly Italian (what is with spaghetti and meatballs?? The do not do that in Italy!)
3. Great service and ambience
4. Cost is average or above, but a couple will not pay more than $200 (wine inclusive)
Thanks
#

I don't know if it's controversial, but it's a bit like asking for the best French restaurant in the city, and then saying entrees less than $30.

What you are really asking for is best medium-priced Italian, which is a lot different than best Italian.

Permalink | Reply

By Wilfrid on Nov 09, 2006 04:46PM

   1.
      re: Wilfrid

      Absolutely right, Wilfrid.
      And "the" definitely have spaghetti and meatballs in Italy. They call it maccheroni alla chitarra con polpettine.

      That having been said, I'd guess something like Cacio e Pepe might be what the OP is looking for.

      Permalink | Reply

      By Andrew P. on Nov 09, 2006 04:58PM
   2.
      re: Wilfrid

      I don't agree that $200 is modest. The only issue is wine - and if consumption and selection is in control, $200 is reasonable expectation.

      Permalink | Reply

      By serious on Mar 05, 2007 02:47AM

#

Welcome to the site! I think that for that price you can eat at some of the most expensive places, such aa Babbo, if you order right. But I think what you want is the best small pleasant place with food and atmosphere evocative of Italy. Le Zie comes to mind, but there are many others.

Permalink | Reply

By Brian S on Nov 09, 2006 05:29PM

#

I assume when you say "truly Italian", you want to eliminate places that serve Italian-American. If you are looking for some places that serve authentic Italian, there are many. I personally like Teodora in midtown. Whenever I eat there it seems like half the customers are speaking Italian. Under $200.00 with wine is possible, depending upon the quality and quantity ordered.They also own Bianca which is also very good. I would second Le Zie and add Da Andrea. Keep in mind that many of the Italian restaurants specialize in a region of Italy. These are only a few but there are so many that I am sure you will have plenty of recs.

Permalink | Reply

By bobby06877 on Nov 09, 2006 05:44PM

   1.
      re: bobby06877

      Not necessarily - look at the places the OP lists as his favorite restaurants. Mediocre / Red Sauce places.

      1. Chianti (B'klyn)
      2. Arte Cafe (UES)
      3. Marco Polo (B'klyn)
      4. Tuscan Grill (Rockfeller

      (MARCO POLO IN BROOKLYN!!)

      Permalink | Reply

      By chow_gal on Nov 09, 2006 07:54PM
         1.
            re: chow_gal

            Arte Cafe is actually on the UWS and I was just there this past wknd - DO NOT GO! The service is horrendous, not to mention slow. They charged an extra $130 on my credit card and it took over FIVE phone calls to get it back. To top it off, the food isn't even that great. Go somewhere where they appreciate your business. Okay, I am done ranting now. :)

            Permalink | Reply

            By hps on Nov 16, 2006 06:39PM

#

LUPA
170 Thompson St
New York, NY 10012
(212) 982-5089

true roman style cuisine. batali hooks it up right here and I have had a meal for four with wine for under $250

Permalink | Reply

By yoyoma25 on Nov 09, 2006 07:12PM

   1.
      re: yoyoma25

      I agree!! If you want to spend some more money go to his other place, Babbo. Lupa truely does remind me of ,eals I have had in Italy.

      Enjoy!

      Permalink | Reply

      By Angelina on Nov 09, 2006 07:52PM
   2.
      re: yoyoma25

      Lupa is my vote - it is one of my favorites. The next place to visit that I haven't tried is L'Impero I have heard rave reviews of it as well.

      Permalink | Reply

      By centrejack on Dec 19, 2006 09:40PM

#

NYC = 5 boroughs? Then:
Queens: Piccola Venetzia (Red sauce/Istrian)
Brooklyn: Frost (Red sauce)
Bronx: Robereto's (Northern)

Permalink | Reply

By bobjbkln on Nov 09, 2006 08:24PM

   1.
      re: bobjbkln

      Went to Frost for the first time during the summer. It was very good. Old fashioned Italian.

      Permalink | Reply

      By financialdistrictresident on Oct 04, 2007 05:03PM

#

Al di la in Brooklyn

Permalink | Reply

By tml1024 on Nov 09, 2006 08:34PM

#

Joanna's Restaurant
30 E 92nd St, New York 10128
Btwn 5th & Madison Ave
Phone: 212-360-6313

Permalink | Reply

By jmspivey on Nov 09, 2006 08:53PM

   1.
      re: jmspivey

      I've never even heard of Joanna's. Could you tell us more about it?

      Permalink | Reply

      By Dave Feldman on Nov 12, 2006 05:24AM
         1.
            re: Dave Feldman

            Joanna's is closed for now, and is going to reopen in the space in the Hotel Wales previously occupied by 92. I went once - it's v. near where I live - I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the food, esp. for the $25 prix fixe lunch, but turned off a bit by the pink table cloths/decor. Will be interesting to see how it is when it reopens.

            Permalink | Reply

            By MMRuth on Nov 12, 2006 07:24PM
               1.
                  re: MMRuth

                  I've been a steady customer at Joanna's for the past six years and there have NEVER been any pink tablecloths, only white. The walls were a peachy pink, but they worked well with the black and white photographs and gave the place a cozy feel.

                  And yes, the food was lovely.

                  Permalink | Reply

                  By SeefooLover on Mar 04, 2007 06:19PM
   2.
      re: jmspivey

      you have got to be kidding w Joanna's!!!!! one of the few places we had to return meals!!!! 3 of us went-tried it twicw to give it a second chance-never again!!!!!!!

      Permalink | Reply

      By UES Mayor on Oct 05, 2007 05:00AM
         1.
            re: UES Mayor

            They've reopened now - tried it twice - just not v. exciting and expensive for what you get.

            Permalink | Reply

            By MMRuth on Oct 05, 2007 07:15AM

#

I am new at this--- what "red sauce" implies?

Permalink | Reply

By Italianinmyheart on Nov 09, 2006 08:53PM

#

Authentic Italian to me means sauces that dont taste like they are out of a can, gnocchi so fresh they do not taste like pasta, FRECH olive oil less than year old, bolognese sauce to die for, GREAT veal and incredible risotto and ravioli.

Some one above makes great point--FIRST you have to express you desire for Italian Region--Piemonte differnt from Tuscan different than Emiglio--etc....

Next you have to define price range.

Right now San Domenico on Central Park South in real come-back mode--and IF you love truffles their truffle courses are insane...Baboo very hard to beat with GREAT wine list...Osteria del Circo is moderate price with GREAT bolognese with wild boar ragu and great risotto--best moderate price I've found

Permalink | Reply

By tsmithdc on Nov 09, 2006 09:02PM

#

Bar Pitti = bueno bonito y barato. West Village.

Good, beautiful and cheap!

Try the Rigatoni Pitti for a superb supper or lunch...Boun apetito!

Also, try Le Zie 2000 in Chelsea 7th Ave and 20th St.

Permalink | Reply

By netmover on Nov 09, 2006 09:48PM

#

I wet to Campagnola over the weekend it was the best italian meal I have ever had.

Permalink | Reply

By mlb202 on Nov 09, 2006 09:54PM

   1.
      re: mlb202

      mlb can you tell us about what you ate at Campagnola? I have always wanted to try this place as I love their sister place downtown.

      Permalink | Reply

      By erica on Nov 13, 2006 04:11PM
         1.
            re: erica

            What is the name of the sister place?

            Permalink | Reply

            By MMRuth on Nov 13, 2006 04:12PM
               1.
                  re: MMRuth

                  Great question, I did not know they had a sister restaurant

                  Permalink | Reply

                  By bobby06877 on Nov 13, 2006 05:40PM
               2.
                  re: MMRuth

                  sorry..did not see until now....they are connected with Ecco on Chambeers Street, a place I like a lot, with the caveat that you order from the long list of blackboard specials.

                  Permalink | Reply

                  By erica on Nov 15, 2006 05:27PM
   2.
      re: mlb202

      I grew up in NYC and live a block from Campagnola, and I must wonder where you've eaten Italian in the city to have had the best Italian meal ever there. It's good (not great, but good), but SOOOO overpriced, and I think there is better Italian in the city, even just in the general neighborhood. I think people tend to be very taken with things like the enormous wheel of Parmigiano Reggiano and the exhorbitant antipasti they have. For that kind of money, go over to Lex and get a better meal at the Italian place next to Lumi....the name is escaping me right now...anyone who knows what I'm talking about, chime in :)

      Permalink | Reply

      By nattie23nyc on Oct 05, 2007 07:06AM
         1.
            re: nattie23nyc

            Sette Mezzo?

            Permalink | Reply

            By gregoryclaude on Oct 05, 2007 12:08PM
               1.
                  re: gregoryclaude

                  I had a lovely, simple meal at Sette Mezzo, but it cost an arm and a leg. For that type of money, I want food that will challenge my tastebuds and waiters that know what they are doing, not just have a charming accent. Take the train somewhere if you are in the East 70s. You'll be happy elsewhere.

                  Permalink | Reply

                  By spdnyc on Jan 04, 2010 12:52AM

#

I recommend Crispo on 14th b/w 7th and 8th ave. Reasonably priced and great Italian food!

Permalink | Reply

By jdog120 on Nov 12, 2006 09:25PM

   1.
      re: jdog120

      I second Crispo.

      Permalink | Reply

      By idia on Oct 05, 2007 07:40AM

#

Queen Italian Restaraunt
84 Court St.
Brooklyn , NY 11201
Phone: (718) 596-5955

Its in downtown Brooklyn and very easy to get to from Manhattan. A friend took me here and the food was quite good.

Permalink | Reply

By designerboy01 on Nov 16, 2006 06:58AM

#

Personally, I'd do L'Impero. Don't really know what "authentic" Italian may mean to you, but the food there is delicious, period.

Permalink | Reply

By tupac17616 on Nov 16, 2006 05:30PM

#

I highly recommend:

Trattoria L'Incontro
21-76 31st Street, near Ditmars Boulevard, Astoria, Queens, (718) 721-3532.

Permalink | Reply

By Eateverything on Dec 19, 2006 09:34PM

#

Robertos.

Second place would be the "Enoteca" at Del Posto.

Permalink | Reply

By Fielding on Dec 19, 2006 09:55PM

I just went to Babbo a week ago...probably the 6th or 7th time I've been over the last 5 years. Either they've gone downhill, or I got them on an "off" night. Usually love the pasta tasting menu (which 2 people could do for less than $200 inc. wine). Unfortunately the pastas weren't properly cooked, weren't served hot, or weren't properly seasoned. I had a much better meal at Del Posto a few days later.

Permalink | Reply

By rcinsf on Mar 06, 2007 03:28PM

Hi, New to this site as well. I'm looking for an intimate place to dine in Manhattan. The food options are Italian, American, Mediterranean or Spanish. Price would be moderate to expensive. Any suggestions?

Ill admit to not having hit most of the ones listed here, but my best experience so far has been Crispo in the Village.

Reasonably priced, fresh fresh pasta, terrific meats and cheeses and a great atmosphere.

www.crisporestaurant.com

I'd highly recommend A Voce. Everytime I go I have a great meal. Andrew Carmellini is a great chef, and you can tell he pays attention to all the details. The fresh ricotta from italy spread on grilled bread is hard to beat!

Permalink | Reply

By artfuldestruct on Oct 05, 2007 09:29AM

#

I went to NYC for the first time a week ago and went to Little Italy. I had the best meal ever at Il Palazzo (bowl of pasta in white sauce, prosciutto, mushrooms). Wow! I had a great seat by the window and the service was excellent! Italian music played in the background and the glass of wine was the best I've ever had.

Foodwise, Crispo is in my opinion the best overall. I have never spent more than $120 for 2 people for 2 courses and a bottle of wine. The food is always fresh, interesting and delicious, and the menu is quite varied. I go there very often and never get bored with the menu. The veal breast parmesan is a wonderful variation on a (usually boring or awful) classic. Such simple things as mozzarella with roasted peppers and sausage-stuffed sage leaves rise to new heights here.

In the higher end category, I consider Babbo to be the most pleasant overall dining experience. The food is innovative without straying too much from "true Italian". And it is really not so expensive for what you get, including a well-chosen selection of moderately priced wines.

Permalink | Reply

By rrems on Oct 25, 2007 09:07AM

#

Of course the answer to this questions is subjective, but there are a lot of BAD suggestions in this thread.

When I want a good and authentic Italian meal, I go to one of these places for the following reasons:

1. Aurora SoHo. The food is outstanding and sitting at the bar gets you fresh air from the open storefront doors and some solid people watching.
2. Pepolino. The owners are from one of my favorite restaurants in Florence: Cibreo. Their Italian food might be the best I've had in the States. Most of the staff is off-the-boat Florentine and they know their stuff. Outdoor tables here too, 2 interior dining rooms.
3. Bar Pitti. The food is simple, authentic and priced right. The outdoor tables in front are such a scene, you wonder why they bother making such good food. They could probably make money serving less.
4. Morandi. The food is better now than it's ever been, it's a beautiful space and the menu is varied and well-planned. There is little issue here with authenticity at all and their wines by the glass are impressive.
5. Arturo's. Old-school, red-sauce, pizza joint with good Italian-American dishes prepared with fresh ingredients and offered inexpensively. Not gourmet, or even authentic "Italian", but never a bad meal here. The live jazz music adds unparalleled old Village charm.

Other honorable mentions: Crispo, Lavagna, Scarpetta,

babbo, picola venezia, manducattis

Times Square is a popular destination for visitors to New York City, but the area is plagued with mediocre chain restaurants. Skip the tourist traps and have a great meal at one of these recommended Times Square restaurants.

Times Square Neighborhood Guide | Times Square Map | Pre-Theater Restaurants
1. Becco
People flock to Becco, either because of co-owner Lidia Bastianich (of PBS) or to enjoy the all you can eat pasta special, featuring antipasto or salad and three pastas nightly. Although you're unlikely to spot Lidia, you won't leave hungry.

    * Address: 355 West 46th St (8th Ave)
    * Phone: 212-397-7597
    * Cuisine: Italian
    * Hours: Mon-Fri: 12-2:25 pm; 5-10:30 pm; Sat: 4:30-10:30 pm; Sun: 5-10 pm
    * Price Range: pasta special: lunch $16.95, dinner $21.95; a la carte: approx $40
    * Good for Kids/Groups? Yes
2. John's Pizzeria
Housed in a deconsecrated church, John's Pizzeria is renowned for its coal oven pizza. The Times Square outpost of the famed Greenwich Village original serves up the best pizza in the neighborhood and solid Italian sandwiches and entrees. (No pizza by the slice.)

    * Address: 260 West 44th St (7th/8th Aves)
    * Phone: 212-582-8065
    * Cuisine: Pizza/Italian
    * Hours: 11:30 am - 11:30 pm
    * Price Range: entrees/sandwiches $8-15; pizza $10-16
    * Good for Kids/Groups? Yes (special packages available for groups)
3. Churrascaria Platforma
Brazillian rodizio at Churrascaria Platforma is a great choice for those with big appetites and large groups, seeking a celebratory atmosphere. The prix-fixe includes the endless grilled meats and the extensive salad bar, but not dessert. Diners use a double-sided green/red chip to indicate when they want more meat served.

    * Address: 316 West 49th Street (8th/9th Aves)
    * Telephone: 212-245-0505
    * Cuisine: Brazillian
    * Hours: 12 pm - 12 am
    * Price Range: lunch $30.95, dinner $46.95
    * Good for Kids/Groups? Yes
4. Wu Liang Ye
Wu Liang Ye is regarded among Manhattan's best Sichuan restaurants. Sichuan dumplings, Kung Pao chicken and cold sesame noodles are some of the most popular dishes. Be warned -- Sichuan dishes tend to be hot -- if you prefer your food less spicy, be sure to let the waiter know.

    * Address: 36 West 48th St (5th/6th Aves)
    * Telephone: 212-398-2308
    * Cuisine: Chinese/Sichuan
    * Hours: 12 pm - 9:30 pm
    * Price Range: lunch special $6.95; entrees $8-20 (seafood and specialty items at top of range)
    * Good for Groups? Yes
5. Edison Cafe
Located in the Edison Hotel, the Edison Cafe serves up affordable food all day long, including pancakes, matzo ball soup, and deli sandwiches. Edison Cafe is a reliable standby and popular with those who work in the neighborhood -- meaning you might just spot a theater big-wig or star dining there.

    * Address: 228 West 47th St (Broadway and 8th Ave)
    * Telephone: 212-840-5000
    * Cuisine: American/Delicatessen
    * Hours: Mon - Sat: 6 am - 9:30 pm; Sun: 6 am - 7:30 pm
    * Price Range: $5-10
6. Ruby Foos
This fun, funky Asian fusion restaurant has a great atmosphere and features creative takes on dim sum, sushi, and Thai dishes, designed for sharing. The children's menu has familiar items like hot dogs and grilled cheese. Reservations are recommended, though after 8, tables are easier to come by.

    * Address: 1626 Broadway (49th St.)
    * Telephone: 212-489-5600
    * Cuisine: Asian Fusion
    * Hours: 11:30 a.m. - midnight (11 p.m. Sunday - Wednesday)
    * Price Range: $6-30
    * Good for Kids/Groups? Yes

7. Virgil's
Surprisingly, Virgil's offers some of New York City's best barbecue, including Memphis ribs and Carolina Pulled Pork. Portions are generous and they have a full bar with signature drinks. Reservations are recommended -- allow plenty of time if you're going to a show afterward, as service can be slow.

    * Address: 152 West 44th Street (Bdwy/6th Ave)
    * Telephone: 212-921-9494
    * Cuisine: Southern/BBQ
    * Hours: 11:30 AM - Midnight (11 p.m. on Sun/Mon)
    * Price Range: $8-22 for entrees
    * Good for Kids/Groups? Yes

8. Kodama
Affordable sushi served in a simply decorated environment is the reason to check out Kodama. Their lunch specials are a good deal, and they are known for serving solid maki, including a Canadian roll featuring salmon, and spicy greens.

    * Address: 301 West 45th St. (8th Ave)
    * Telephone: 212-582-8065
    * Cuisine: Japanese/Sushi
    * Hours: Mon-Fri: 12 - 2:25 pm; 5 - 10:30 pm; Sat: 4:30 -10:30 pm; Sun: 5 - 10 pm
    * Price Range: lunch $8-15; dinner $10-25
agat Survey, publisher of the top New York restaurant and nightlife directories, recently released their 2011 guide to New York City restaurants. The new Zagat guide is based on the opinions of more than 40,000 locals and covers a record 2,115 restaurants. The typical restaurant in the survey was visited by five to six Zagat surveyors every day of the year.

The 2011 Zagat survey shows that New Yorkers are still dining out less and making more frugal choices. The average cost of a meal out in New York City actually declined slightly since last year to $41.76, the first decrease in that number since 2002.

The good news is that Zagat surveyors have noted improvements in hospitality and service and shorter wait times for tables. After all, New Yorkers aren't about to give up eating, drinking, and being merry altogether. 
And the big Zagat winners are....
The top-rated restaurants for 2011 include plenty of old favorites and some hot newcomers.

    * Best Newcomer: Maialino in the Gramercy Park Hotel was rated the best new restaurant in New York City.


    * Best Food: Eric Ripert's Le Bernardin wins the Best Food title again for 2011.


    * Best Service: Thomas Keller's Per Se at Time Warner Center earned top honors for service for the second year running.
1. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 1:38 PM

We were in the City this past weekend - on the suggestion of some of the 'local' experts we tried Le Zie, 7th Avenue b'twn 20th and 21st.

It is far superior than what you will find in Little Italy, the food is excellent, service very cordial and the prices are very reasonable (for NYC).

My wife exclaimed the chicken piccata was the best she has eaten, the entree was $13.95!!

Give it a try - I don't think you'll be disappointed.

Poppa
2. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 2:02 PM
Destination Expert   What's this?
for New York City

Little Italy is no longer a destination for outstanding Italian food. (I'm not sure it ever was). Italian is probably the most popular type of restaurant in Manhattan--beyond what is called "American." You will find all kinds of Italian (northern/tuscan, southern/red sauce, piedmontese etc.) in all neighborhoods at all price points in all sizes, shapes and forms

If by midtown you mean near the theater district, Vice Versa is very good and has some good value prix fixe menus. If you want something more unusual/upscale, L'Impero is wonderful.

If you're more specific about the type of food/place/location you want, we can make some more recos. I haven't been to Le Zie (which is just south of midtown) so can't compare it but I'd trust the reco if the menu looks good to you. Have you checked menupages.com?
5. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 3:06 PM

Whether or not you`re a fan of Lidia Bastianich`s PBS cooking show, "Lidia`s Italian-American Kitchen," her theatre distict restaurant, Becco, is always excellent and I never miss an opportunity to dine there on my frequent visits to NYC. It`s located on restaurant row at 355 W. 46th Street between 8th and 9th Avenues. Phone is 212-397-7957. This is a casually elegant place with lots of charm, outstanding, friendly service and authentic, simple, hearty Italian fare. Prices are surprisingly reasonable. Becco is well known for it`s justifiably popular SINFONIA di PASTA. This is a prix fixe for $16.95 at lunch and $21.95 for dinner. It includes wonderful breads, either a caesar salad or an excellent antipasto misto consisiting of marinated grilled vegetables and seafood (the better option.) The servers then arrive with tableside service from saute pans, of the 3 pastas of the day with unlimited servings. This is always stellar and a great value, although the entire menu is not to be overlooked. The in house made dessert sampler for 2 ($11.00) is perhaps New York`s best dessert value too and there is an extensive list of Italian wines for $25 a bottle. Becco is always exremely busy during pretheatre dining hours so reservations are highly recommended, or go during theatre perfomance times or post theatre when things are a bit quieter, but it`s always a memorable dining experience here. Check out the Tripadvisor reviews.
6. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 3:48 PM

I am actually staying a bit south of Times Square so any more suggestions are appreciated. I wrote down the ones above. We love Italian Food. What about good Deli's?
7. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 4:28 PM

Avoid the touristy overpriced and attitude laden theatre district delis, The Carnegie and The Stage on 7th Avenue. If you want the real New York Jewish Deli experience you`ll have to travel to Katz`s Delicatessn at 205 E. Houston St. at Ludlow St. 212-254-2246. This is the real deal and it`s been around since 1888. This is great traditional deli food at reasonable prices and they won`t charge you extra for sharing one of their great sandwiches with someone else like they do at those other places.
8. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 4:40 PM
Destination Expert   What's this?
for New York City

Well the pastrami experts (not me) would differ with quindad and say run don't walk to the Carnegie deli. If you like thin cut pastrami, that's the place to go. Katz's is good but cut thicker. Ben's Kosher deli may be closer to your hotel and is good.

Just south of Times Square generally means the garment center area. One of the best restaurants there is Keen's Steakhouse if you like meat (not just steak, they're also famous for their mutton chop). If you eat in the bar/pub area off the pub menu it's cheaper.

Basilica and Roberto Passon are 2 places on 9th ave in the 40's that are well regarded italians. Basilica is just a small, neighborhood place with good prices. (R Passon is too, but nicer).

People swoon over Mario Batali's restaurants. The one closest to you would be Esca.
9. Re: Good Italian Restaurant In Midtown Manhattan
Jan 18, 2007, 5:01 PM

Maui #1.... we eat at a place called Simply Pasta when we go to the city... a local recommended it to us for that area... just barely south of Times Square. It closes early though... 9pm... and they only take reservations by phone, not over the internet... but they do have a web site http://www.simplypastanyc.com and you can look at their menu. It is good priced and the food was great!

Hope that helps...
Open for lunch, dinner and weekend breakfast, Abboccato is part of the Livanos Family. A 75-seat restaurant, it features a variety of time-honored Italian recipes.
Tel 1 212 265-4000 
Il Cortile
Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Italian for Courtyard, Il Cortile has an authentic Roman garden, where Chef Michael DeGeorgio presents his specialties of lobster ravioli and veal cognac with porcini mushrooms and other Italian food items.
Tel 1 212 226-6060 
Naples Ristorante E Pizzeria at MetLife BLDG
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Italian style dining.
Tel 1 212 972-7001
Address: 200 Park Ave | New York, NY | 10166
Reviews Section
Read Reviews
Rank: 3.5/5

    *


      Go to the back for a slice
      October 28, 2010 — "In the back of the restaurant is a separate entrance for slices. The slices are good and reasonably priced even for midtown. There's a tiny area to eat; location is great to grab a slice and head..."

    *


      Not a review, Im afraid, simply a...
      October 11, 2010 — "Not a review, Im afraid, simply a notification that they are closed on a Sunday evening!"

    *


      Very Nice Restaurant
      May 11, 2010 — "We ate at Naples 45 twice during our stay and both times we had a very nice time. The food is great and is good value too! Service was friendly and efficient and the atmosphere was also very good. A..."

    *


      Excellent Business lunch
      January 24, 2010 — "Great spot to take clients to lunch at....we arrived with a party of 7 at noon and were seated immediately at a big round table. It was a bit hard to hear those across the table, but there is a great..."

    *


      Delicious pizza, great appetizers
      January 11, 2010 — "Naples 45, a great Italian restaurant right behind Grand Central Terminal, is in the bottom of the MetLife building. The restaurant imports a lot of its ingredients from Italy, and everything else is..."

Edit Listing | View Stats

Gianni's Restaurant
Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Fine, traditional dining and mature wines.
Tel 1 212 608-8828
Address: 11 Fulton Street | New York, NY | 10038
Edit Listing | View Stats

A.O.C Bedford Restaurant
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
The A.O.C. derives from Appellation d’Origine Controlle (AOC), the French government laws and regulation to control product quality and labeling; especially wine.
Send Email Send an Email   Tel 1 212 414-4764
Address: 14 Bedford Street, | New York City, NY | 10014
A Voce
More Details | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Located in the heart of NYC at the edge of Madison Square Park, A Voce features a stylish blend of earthy tones and urban style. The seasonal Italian menu is created and updated by award-winning Chef Andrew Carmellini.
Tel 1 212 545-8555
Address: 41 Madison Ave. | New York, NY | 10010
Edit Listing | View Stats

Cara Mia
Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Tel 1 212 262-6767
Address: 654 Ninth Avenue | New York, NY
Panevino Ristorante in Avery Fisher Hall
Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Panevino Ristorante in Avery Fisher Hall of the Lincoln Center features contemporary Italian cuisine. The restaurant is open Monday through Saturday for dinner and lunch is served on matinee days.
Tel 1 212 874-7000
Address: 132 West 65th Street, Avery Fisher Hall | New York, NY | 10023
Edit Listing | View Stats

44 SW Ristorante & Martini Lounge
Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Enjoy warm hospitality and a reasonably priced menu with oversized portions at the cozy NYC Italian restaurant 44sw Ristorante in the heart of the Broadway Times Square theater district. Prompt service in an inviting candlelit atmosphere with dinner music, eclectic lighting and plush velvet seating. Intimate martini lounge and outdoor sidewalk dining, too! 
attanzi Ristorante
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Lattanzi serves Italian fine dining in Manhattan's Theatre District, situated on 46th Street's Restaurant Row. Now in its twenty first year of operation, the restaurant has earned its wide reputation for serving exceptional, authentic, and high-quality Italian cuisine.
Send Email Send an Email   Tel 1 212 315-0980
Address: 361 West 46th Street | New York, NY | 10036
Reviews Section
Read Reviews
Rank: 3.5/5

    *


      Be carefull you mat "double tip" if you dont check the check..
      March 08, 2011 — "I have been a couple of times in this place with my wife that is from Texas and used to live in NYC. We always liked this place. But today I had a BAD experience with the service at our dinner. I..."

    *


      Beautiful atmosphere and good experience
      March 07, 2011 — "We made sure to arrive post-theatre crowd and it was a good move. The restaurant was probably 3/4 full on a Saturday night at 8pm. Service was wonderful and efficient. I ordered the Sea Bass..."

    *


      Felt like part of the family
      February 18, 2011 — "We needed to find a restaurnat in NYC on a Saturday night, Valentine weekend, prior to a show. Our phone conversation was with Octtavio, who was very helpful and able to accomodate us at an earlier..."

    *


      Wonderful Atmosphere, Service and Food
      January 11, 2011 — "I go to New YOrk every Christmas. This year i went with my husband. He does not like crowds. During all of my visits I have never been told of Restaurant Row. Lattanzi's was wonderul! I did not..."

    *


      Don't risk your tickets..."
      January 11, 2011 — "We went pre-theatre, which is what this restaurant DOES. And they were a mess -- we finally were seated 40 minutes after our reservation and we watched as a family of 3, who had been waiting even..."

Edit Listing | View Stats

Cacio e Pepe
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Cacio e Pepe opened its door on July 26, 2004 that featured an evening of complimentary food and wine.Cacio e Pepe has been bustling with patrons ever since.
Send Email Send an Email   Tel 1 212 505-5931
Address: 182 Second Avenue | New York City, New York | 10003
Sorella
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Sorella offers Italian dishes inspired by the northern region of Piedmont. The menu features such dishes a crispy veal sweetbreads, gnocchi in a cream sauce, risotto with caramelized onions and mushrooms, and arugula and black figs. 
Cafe Fiorello
More Details | Map | Save | Add Event | Write a Review
Cafe Fiorello has been in business for over thirty years. Specializing in a range of Italian dishes, including over fifty kinds of antipasti, the Cafe offers something for everyone.
Tel 1 212 595-5330 
Top 10 Italian Restaurants in New York City

Some people call it "spaghetti sauce," others call it "gravy," but when we enjoy a well-made pasta topping, we don't hesitate to mop up the extra with some bread rather than let it go to waste. You can't always tell which restaurants are making fresh pasta, or their own tiramisu, by looking at the red tablecloths and white napkins. Whether you're craving a simple plate of spaghetti and meatballs, or an osso buco that melts in your mouth, here are our choices for the Top 10 Italian Restaurants in New York, presented in alphabetical order. Mangia! 

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

A big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store.

Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.

There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.

This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.


We went to the Italian Kitchen on Saturday as a party of 18. I had been and looked at the venue earlier in the day and was slightly worried by the shabbiness of the restaurant, but we all agreed that the food and service were excellent and would definitely go back. 
Comment on this reader review

Firstly - Unfriendly service - waitress was very impatient, tearing off order notes in front of our eyes.

Secondly - food was overpriced, tasteless and very basic.

A meal deal (about £8) said: salads for starter and chili pasta for main. For salads it was literally 3 leaves of salad in plate with some olive oil... Pasta - not cooked enough and taste was horribly overkilled with garlic chili... Minestrone soup - few small pieces of vegetables floating in water.

As London visitors, I think, we were caught in one of those "tourist one-off visiting restaurants"...

We've never had such a bad restaurant experience before! 


delicious food, good service, nice people, one of the few restaurants we visited twice. 

very very nice nite out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money. 

3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly. 

Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

thoroughly recommend 

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 

I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening.

We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 

In general Italian restuarants even in Italy are mostly middle of the road basic food but with prices that really make a mockery of eating out. Most British people have very little idea of Italian food and why should they.

The Italian restaurant set up in the U.K is not very good and the word cynical could be the best way to describe the relationship between the Italian kitchen and foreign customers.

I was in here again paid for by a client who insisted going here. Well I just had some Mozzarella and ham.Its not worse than other places but not better. 

I would have to agree with the previous reviewer. I have been going to the Italian Kitchen since 2005. It has always been my "go to" restaurant for special occasions and meetings with clients. Went there three weeks ago, menu had changed drastically, fewer choices, but the food was still good. Went again tonight, it was horrible. The lasagne was small and dry, the tiramasu tasted like instant coffee. The service was deplorable. I had made a reservation for a large party of my clients who are visiting here from Italy in a couple of weeks. I will be cancelling my reservation. 


Mortified last night.  We took friends for a meal here but boy were we let down. We normally go during the week and have had no cause for complaint, in fact we raved about the place. But on Sat night the service was dreadful, (might I add too few staff and the manager did nothing to help, infact his service was even worse) It was a total embarassement for us and the management and though we will give it another go to prove they can do it, our friends will never be back and will not recommend it to anyone.. What a missed opportunity. And they got the bill wrong!!!

Had a good meal in here during the week.

Penne al Forno was my choice of meal. Mince meat, pasta and cheese. Very good, similar to lasagna. There was plenty of mince meat which was good to see. Had bread to start too, which was also enjoyable. Few different variations of bread.

Place was cosy and clean. Staff were dead on, maybe could have done with a bit more interaction, not much chat out of them. Although saying that I don’t like places that needlessly ask you if everything is ok with your meal when you have your mouth full, so am glad they didn’t do that :-)

Two meals and a shared bread starter came to just under £25 I think.

Food was good last night - and they coped with a picky five year old with good humour and charm. And the shared dessert for two people is just the right size.

The let down was the speed at which younger staff tried to clear our table. First any empty glasses were removed, killing off any chance of crunching the ice. Next they came back for empty plates while one other person was still eating.

Myself and my husband went to Uno’s on a Saturday evening in September.  The restaurant was full and thankfully we had booked a table.  The waitress came and took our order.  I’m always bemused as to why waiters and waitresses sometimes don’t write down your order - I’m more interested in getting a good meal as opposed to whether or not the waiting staff have a good memory.  The waitress who memorised our order would’ve been better off smiling and being pleasant instead of memorizing it with a sour face.  Onto the food.  I must say our starters were lovely.  I had garlic bread which was lovely and doughy and my husband had potato skins with a chilli dip.  Onto the mains and again the quality of the food was good.  I had pizza and hubby had lasagne.  Then it all went a wee bit downhill.  We ordered two cappuccinos and creme brulee for dessert.  The cappuccinos arrived quite quickly but at least 20 minutes later we were still waiting on our creme brulee.  We called the waitress over and advised her we had ordered a dessert 20 minutes ago which hadn’t yet arrived - we told her we wished to cancel the dessert and grab the bill.  She was rather unapologetic about the fact that we hadn’t got our dessert.  On paying for the bill at the bar, the man asked if everything was ok and we mentioned again that we never received our dessert.  Again we got a rather insincere “Sorry”. I’ve now eaten in Uno’s 3 times and the quality of the food has always been good.  However what I think this restaurant needs is to focus on its service.  They seemed to struggle with the volume of people even though there did seem to be enough staff.

I went here recently, on a rainy Monday evening with some family members… Pretty disappointing! Ordered the starter of breads and dips/tapenades which was quite horrible. 2 breads came out… Pathetic doughy-rolls, which had been microwaved and some manky melba toast. So was not a good start…

Myself and another family member ordered the steak, which the waitress, although nice… Messed up, giving us Bernaise instead of Peppered Sauce. This then meant we waited for 10 minutes, while our food went cold, and when we were given the correct condiment, it was rushed and vile! And bordering on the inedible… The wine was also extremely poor. I expected better as we were the only people in the restaurant!

Sigh. I should probably give it only one star, but I have eaten here before and its been great.

Poor service, small portions, warm food not hot, would not recommend.  Definately prefer pizzarellys

Pretty good tonight - good atmosphere, everyone polished off their main course.

£2.95 might be a bit steep for three scoops of ice cream and a wafer ... But otherwise, seemed good value and tasty.

Tonight wasn’t their best night. Service was ok. But the pizza arrived warm, but not hot.  Beginning to think that Uno’s is a bit hit and miss.

Unos offers a completly different atmoshpere than pizzarelly, the pizza are differently made, unos being more traditionally italian, and pizzarellys more american(deep pan, both are fantastic and would recommend either, except unos is much more value for money,

At unos the service was fantastic, the staff really friendly and atmoshere fantastic, i love it every time i go there… :D

I’ve been to Unos 3 times, both the food and service has always been good.  It’s a nice family friendly restaurant with a good atmosphere.  Service has always been excellent.

There are two very important reasons why I would give a restaurant five stars. 

Reason one is the food, it has to be delicious and it has to be hot.  I got the eggplant parm and my roommate got the seafood pasta thing from which I theif-ed a bite from her plate.  Both were outstanding.  Check.  

Reason two is the ambiance, and this place has "it".  "it" means something special, something unique and authentic.  The family vibe here is really special, and everyone was very gracious.  The place is not huge but is packed with tlc and you can tell they decorated themselves. Also friendly and impeccable service.  Plan to go here with a date or with your parents, it is just so cozy you can bring just about anyone here.

We had a seriously delicious dinner her last night. Dinner was late, so the restaurant  was mostly empty. We were greeted by a very (overly in the opinion of everyone in the party) owner. Service was prompt, friendly and helpful. They accommodated our specific requests (vegetarians and health-conscious).

The canoli was the best I've ever had. 

The overly zealous owner was the main drawback. I can see how he might be endearing when the restaurant is hopping.

This is a very authentic old-fashioned place about a billion times better than the Stinkin' Rose, which is tourist trap Hell.
The owner is a nice guy and a total character. Place was hekka packed at 9:10 pm on a Sunday night and he like MacGyver reappropriated two tables and stole chairs to accommodate us. We ordered - I had the spagetti and meatballs, friend has chicken saltimboca, other friend had eggplant parm. So, worst part - bread - it's just not warm or worth the carbs. The pastas were all good, esp the aurora sauce penne. Saltimboca - there was a clumpy white sauce involved, which sort of killed it.
I have heartburn. But, overall, it was good. It's the kind of place, you just gotta know what to order.


This was THE BEST meal of our trip! Fantastic quaint atmosphere; the owner himself greets you at the door-LOVED it!  Go early for ease in getting a table.

Great little restaurant in North Beach. As many have already stated this is a family owned restaurant - dad working the crowd and being very charming and endearing, daughter taking the orders, and mom bringing out the food. The hubby and I split a tomato, mozzarella, & basil salad, I had the cheese tortellini with pesto and a cabernet & the hubby had some lasagna. Everything was excellent!!
Such a cute little family and great food! Will be back!

So, I was looking for a new italian place to dine and found that this place had pretty good reviews.  

Unfortunately this is my first review and I have to give it a two thumbs down.  

Why?

Well, first off the customer service was extremely disappointing.  Grant it that it was a saturday and we all know how busy and overly stuffed san francisco can get but it does not give any reason that a person should not receive friendly customer service.  I noticed that the owner didn't smile at any potential customers waiting.  He only catered to the people already sitting down dining.  He didn't even respond to anyone waiting.  

The daughter I assume or waitress was highly rude.  There was a party ahead of me with 6 women waiting.  It was 9:30pm and there was a table I guess made to be able to fit 9 people.  All of the sudden the waitress called a group of 9 people to sit there and then I overhead one of the group of girls walk over to the waitress and explain that they had a reservation @ 8:30 and had been waiting a long time.  The waitress would not seat them and said that the table fits 9 people and even thought the other party did not have a reservation they had 9 people.  So the other 6 women would have to be on standby.  Then customers kept going going either in or out of the place and leaving the door wide open and the waitress blamed it on the 6 women and I standing by the door.  She made a comment that "customers are trying to eat."

I finally was so repulsed by this service that I decided to leave.

So why am I upset?

Because I deal a lot with small business owners and I work in customer service as well.  And any customer that walks in the door is considered a potential customer and so they should be treated just the same as a customer already sitting down.  

As a business even though it is family owned they really need to update their knowledge on how to run a sufficient business.

They need to be more organized and have some kind of check in so that people can write their names down and know who is next on the list.  Rather than like the waitress said rudely, "first come first serve."

They need to follow reservations if they offer them.  If a person has a reservation @ 8:30pm and it's now 9pm, they should honor that.

The place is too small and obviously they make profits and so at that point they could expand to a bigger place.  But I assume since it's family owned they want to keep it the way it always was.  But sorry, business places grow, and it's fine the way they prefer to stay small but they are in the wrong neighborhood then because north beach is a growing and busy area.  

SO OVERALL, IF I COULD I'D GIVE IT A ZERO.  CUSTOMER SERVICE IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO ME.  And even though a lot of reviews of the service being great, they did not give any service to potential customers and that was disappointing.

Food wise, I can't say much but why should I pay someone and wait forever just to have received bad service from the start.

Such a wonderful experience. Was greeted at the door by the owner, his daughter took our orders, and his wife served us a dessert of homemade cannolis. A really authentic experience, and reminded me of a little cafe I ate pasta in when I was visiting Rome. The food is all homemade, simple and delicious. We arrived around 6pm on a Tuesday night and some tables were already taken. By the time we left, all of the tables were filled. I'm coming back!

It's restaurants like this one that make localsl so lucky to live here yay!

Authentic to the max! Service, atmosphere, food, staff!.. Mama, Papa, so on and so on, awesome. But the food! is so the real deal, so charming. 
Whatever you like, you taste the love.


A family business. 

Nonna's cooking in the kitchen. Nonno's walking around the dining area singing.  And the rest of the family is making sure your wine glass is filled, bread basket is full and a smile is on everyone's face!

Homemade pasta, great sauces, and amazing appetizers and desserts. 

One of my favorite finds in the city for a homey feeling Italian restaurant. My go to - just remember, Nonno may try to sing to you and Nonna's gonna make you eat until you pop!

But you'll roll out of here satisfied and 5 pounds happier.

There's this place Italian place in Reno (yes, Reno) I consider the best Italian food on the west coast. Franchino is on par with that place. Family run, small, and you have a feeling that the recipes are recipes the owner ate when he was a kid. Skip over the commercial places and eat here. You'll be glad you did.

Gnocchi with 3 sauces: pomodoro, pesto, and gorgonzola: Gnocchi was alright. Maybe, I just don't like gnocchi's in general. Price was kind of on the steep side.

What? A delicious, reasonably priced Italian resturant on Columbus??? Is that even possible?

Yes! The service is great and the food was delcious. It's family owned so you really get a warm feeling from the enviorment. The food was amazing and there was a nice varaity for different diets, etc.

We stumbled upon Franchino while meandering around North Beach looking for a place for a late lunch.  We were thisclose to going to Steps of Rome, but saw that it got 3 1/2 stars and decided we should try something new.  We pulled up Franchino's Yelp page on our iPhones and were deligted to see that, like in the photo, Mr. Franchino was standing in front of the restaurant with a welcoming smile and a 1950s hat.  Franchino was our clear choice.

We were seated by the window and Mr. Franchino's wife gave us our menus and told us about the specials.  On her recommendation, we got the manicotti with spinach and ricotta and the spaghetti with calamari.  We started with the house salad and got the complimentary bread basket.

The house salad was ok, as was the bread.  A bit disappointing because I love bread baskets.  The bread came out cold and was nothing special.  

Then came out our entrees... one bite of the manicotti and we were speechless.  It was AMAZING!  The rich tomato-based marinara tasted fresh and was absolutely perfect with the bites of cheesy pasta.  This dish was some of the best pasta I've ever had.  It was so simple and delicious and I still think about it from time to time.  True story.

The spaghetti with calamari was also quite good (though the manicotti was the standout dish of the afternoon).  I've learned through many disappointing dining experiences that mixing seafood with a marinara-based pasta can be a recipe for disaster.  In many of my past experiences, it has been fishy and disturbing.  The spaghetti with calamari was my first pleasant experience with marinara-based seafood pasta!  The calamari was perfectly tender and the flavor perfectly complemented the spaghetti rather than overpowering it.

The owners of Franchino are a wonderful couple and we loved patronizing this delicious family-run restaurant.  I will definitely be back!

The location of this place adds a lot to it's ambiance.  I was a visitor in San Francisco for the weekend and fell in love with North Beach and Washington Square.

Part of the aforementioned ambiance is the owner and wait staff.  This place is the perfect example of a small, family run operation, and when it comes to Italian restaurants, this is really important.  The owner schmoozes and croons old Italian songs in a wine stupor, while his wife serves wonderful gnocchi she just made.  The food was fantastic, and I was lucky enough to be sitting at a table next to Cody Ross and his family before Game 1 of the World Series.

A fantastic place to go on a cool night in San Francisco.

Very cute, quiet place to have a nice meal. The owner is incredibly charming and service is quick.

I really enjoyed the bruschetta, but the chicken parm was not outstanding. I wanted to thoroughly enjoy the meal because the setup was perfect for a classic Italian dining experience, but it was just okay.

This place was just how it was described by other yelpers. Very warm, family owned and operated restaurant, where the focus is on the food and a friendly atmosphere.  The owner, in classic Old Country attire,  welcomes you in Italian at the door- and if your lucky will serenade you with an old Italian tune- while the wife and two daughters take your order and prepare your meals.  We started with the Scamorza and eggplant appetizers which were the highlight of our dinner. Both were absolutely perfect! The grilled eggplant was thinly shaved and served over a bed of marinated grilled peppers and mixed greens. The Scamorza- smoked mozzarella with asparagus and olives- was cooked just right and tasted great over the fresh bread they provide.
My girlfriend ordered the Canneloni and I chose the Gnocchi-both were delicious and served in healthy portions.  I strongly recommend this place when in North Beach, as it is superior to the more touristy and non-authentic Italian restaurants in the neighborhood.

I was looking forward to eating here based on my fellow Yelpers' reviews. It was always one of those places I have seen and promised myself I would eat here the next time I was banging around North Beach.
Nice little place and the owner is continuously pouring on the charm.
My wife ordered the Meat Ravioli with Mushroom Sauce which was terrific based on the few I confiscated. I ordered a simple dish that came out wrong the first time (no biggie). When they quickly shuffled out another one.....bland! Come on...for a $17 pasta dish, at least throw in a halfway decent portion of pancetta in there. What a bummer.
I'll probably stop in again sometime.

If you are in North Beach and are overwhelmed by all the Italian restaurants barking for your attention to dine with them, please try Franchino first. You wont be disappointed.

Alright, I've pretty much lived in North Beach my whole life and rarely ventured out to Italian restaurants in this area. But I have to admit that this one stands out just a bit more than the others along Columbus. If you can mute the constant sounds of the most lovable yet voicetress host, then you could enjoy your meal in peace, but you can do that in any restaurant. So enjoy the ambiance. I pretty much asked the server to just feed me. She ended up serving me a Homemade Pasta with Italian Sausage. This is very good. I do recommend it. And I'm sure there are much more yummy dishes to try if you go again. My friend had the Fettuccine Franchino with prosciutto. This was also yummy. Creamy sauce and not too heavy like most Fettuccine Alfredos are. And then the saltiness of the prosciutto tops it off. All this was accompanied with the house wine. How can you have an Italian dinner without wine. Now the dessert. Chocolate covered Canolli and I forgot what I had but it looked like a custard cream sitting on a chocolate graham cracker. Whatever it was it was delicious. So all in all, I was very pleased here and would eat here again.

This place is fantastic!! It has 100% iitalian character and best of all you'll most likely run into the owner with the most adorable "mama Mia" expression. The wait at this restaurant on a busy night is worth it and it is a great place a group of 4 to eat for under $20 per person and even more amazing with friends and a bottle of wine. (Slightly overpriced, but Italians are imported). 

4stars for food, wine, character and price.
Subtracted 1star for very limited seating, location difficult if not public transit for parking reasons.

my dad and i brought my fiance here for his birthday. i had read that this was a Mom & Pop type place and the reviews were so good we had to check it out. i called to make a reservation that day and the Mama got really excited when she heard my name - i guess her daughter's name is also monica. she was very chatty and warm over the phone. 

when we got to the restaurant the entire family greeted us. Papa shouted "Monica, you late!". He was decked out in a fedora and suit and generally just looking and being awesome. Mama and Papa came over and shook our hands, there were many "buona sera"s and they ushered us to our table. the place is small and cozy with hand-painted murals of ships and food on the walls. 

the menu is expansive and everything looked delicious; i decided to try the meat ravioli with porcini mushroom sauce, my dad got the special: veal & chicken with penne and my fiance got the chicken parmigiana with vegetables. 

our food came out quickly and we dug in. i LOVED my ravioli. the sauce was to die for!!! we tried each other's dishes and i think i could tell my dad and fiance were a little jealous. :P i thought my dad's pasta was great! the chicken parm was a little salty though - i'd say the pasta dishes really seemed to shine. 

we ended our meal with two selections from the dessert menu, the cheesecake with chocolate sauce and a warm custard/pudding made with marsala wine. the cheesecake was just what i needed. i thought the marsala pudding was a bit too boozy, but my dad seemed to enjoy it. 

overall, a wonderful choice for a reasonably priced, homey, delicious meal in North Beach. we will definitely be back for more.

Such a cute lil Italian family joint. Was greeted by the older gentleman owner who kindly seated us right away. The bread they served at the beginning was a bit stale and cold, but the two pasta dishes my friend and I ordered was tasty and al dente -just the way i like it. 
We even got a special treat where Mr. Franchino even dimmed down the lights and sang a short song for the whole restaurant. ;)
he is such an ADORABLE LIL MAN!!!!

I love this joint becuase you can really tell the family takes care of their customers and makes sure everyone is happy with their meal. Wish we had a joint like this in my hometown. I shall miss you Mr. Franchino!

Came here for a friend's birthday in a really small group. The restaurant itself is pretty small (seats no more than 20 people). 

The food was great at the restaurant and they kept giving us more bread without us having to ask! Does that even happen anymore? Good service, good appetizers, good entrees.  

I thought the price of the food was a little more on the expensive side. While this is understandable as it is a family-owned place, my wallet thinks otherwise. You'll pay an average of $15 for an entree of pasta. Then you add on to your bill from there. 

They have one wall pretty much filled with bottles of wine, which looked really nice. The entire restaurant had a nice ambiance. I definitely recommend coming here.

We decided to play tourists and visit Fisherman's Wharf and walk through North Beach.  My wife wanted Italian, so I pulled up Yelp and carefully weeded out the tourist traps, settling on this place.

Boy, we wanted to like this place.  Older Italian gent near the door complete with hat, Italian "nonna"/matriarch, her daughter the waitress. Clearly these people know Italian food.  I was excited when I saw on the framed wall of photos a note scribbled on the back of a bill saying "THIS IS NO TOURIST TRAP.  So and So (Italian name), somewhere in Florida".  Olive oil and vinegar on the table with the bread, here we go.  Could it be, that at last, I found a place that makes good homestyle Italian food?  Sadly, no.

The highlights: the red sauce (I think she called it Ragu?) on the side of pasta was pretty good.  My daughter's fettucine alfredo was heavy as expected but good.   Manicotti, also pretty good (probably the best dish of the day and an off-menu special at that).

The lowlights:  chicken parmesan was an unbreaded cutlet or two, smothered in some orangey colored cheese.  I think it was a sauce, but the quality of the cheese was poor, so when it reached the table, it was just this orange glob.  Homemade ravioli, good, but way too much cream in the sauce. 

We really, really wanted to like this place.  I grew up with a 1st generation Italian-American great-grandmother who made fresh pasta daily, so I know what I'm talking about.

Service was very good and the owner was super sweet, so I wish the food had been better.

As I exited, I noticed the owner trying to usher in customers off the street, as noted in other reviews.  Nothing wrong with that, but when your food is good, finding customers is rarely a problem.

In a pinch, it will do, but I hope there's better out in North Beach.

Best Italian I have had in quite some time! 

Keep in mind this is a family owned business...

Was this review …?
Useful
 
Funny
 
Cool
   
This is one of my favorite restaurants in SF, based almost primarily on the food. The location itself is small/crowded and clearly converted from a home/residential property, the service usually isn't very fast, and getting reservations can be tough...but the food makes up for all of this and more! The ravioli is out of this world - absolutely perfect. Salads and desserts are perfect. I can't ever recall a meal I've had here that wasn't amazing. Highly recommended for anyone who loves authentic, home-made Italian food.

AAAAHHHHH!!!  Mangia  Mangia!!!  Mr. Franchino is ALWAYS a character and his family is VERY nice!!!   (Yes, Mr. Franchino pulled me off the streets with hubby in tow MANY years back too!!!  LOL!!!)  Food is pretty decent, though I took away a star b/c there are signs that they have succumbed to the pressures of the bad economy (i.e. portions are smaller than I've remembered years back.)

I also would NOT recommend the minestrone soup if you like your minestrone soup more tomato-y.  It's more a broth soup with LOADS of veggie.  I had to think on those times and how healthy it is for me to drink this stuff and that's why I didn't take away another star.  :)

The best italian food as well as service I have ever had. The food wasso good and the hospitality was even better! Def. Coming back next time I'm in town

Was this review …?
Useful
 
Me and my friends decided to go to franchino again for a celebration. We came on a Sunday night and it was so crowded, we ended up waiting 1 hour which wasn't so bad. We were all craving franchino and we needed it out of our system haha The food was good, but I guess the reason for my four star is because the food wasn't as delicious as the first time. Their customer service is still outstanding. Our bills came out to 130 for 5 people which is not bad for good food!

When my friend told me about this place, I was ecstatic! It wasn't what i expected. It was really… Read more »

I thank Yelp for putting me in the direction of Franchino, as when you're in Little Italy, it can be overwhelming. Years ago I had a pretty memorable experience at Mona Lisa, but I wasn't in the mood for that kind of Rococo-as-fuck atmosphere. I just wanted something simple and comfortable...oh and delicious. And perhaps decadent. I found that in Franchino.

It's a truly homey atmosphere with what appears to be the owners walking around and talking to people. I opened the menu and was immediately ecstatic to see that there was a vegetarian lasagna. Although I try to avoid dairy regularly, sometimes I'm just in the mood for comfort foods of my youth. Like...lasagna! Only, most authentic Italian joints seem to only offer the standard meat option. 

So I ordered that, plus a glass of Chianti and sat back to enjoy the scene around me. It wasn't terribly crowded, nor was it empty. It was just right, entirely inviting, intimate (well, I was by myself) and I loved the warm, Italian trattoria atmosphere. I could have been in Florence. I could have been in Brooklyn. I could have been on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx. 

The food arrived and I took a moment to appreciate the very sight of it--the curled lasagna noodles, the orangey-red sauce, the slightly browned mozzarella, crispy on the edges (KEY!!!!) And then I dug in. Pure bliss. I don't remember the vegetables, but whatever was in there worked in perfect harmony to give me just the taste I was looking for. Yes, the noodles were the right level of al dente, the sauce tangy, and the cheese not overwhelming. MMMMMMMM I was as happy as Garfield when it was all over.

I'll be back!

Listed in: Memorable San Fran Dining

It's a wonderful family run place with an enthusiastic Italian owner who greeted us like long lost relatives.  I was smiling, because he was a flirt with the lady customers, which reminded me of Italy. I loved this place already! 

The food was pretty damn awesome! My idea of heaven is sitting at this restaurant eating bruchetta all day.  Did I mention I love bruchetta? I chose the fettucini with homemade pesto and chicken. I was filled with regret when the daughter gave me a hefty size of parmesan all over my dish.  It rendered my stomach useless because I couldn't finish my food.  It was too much parmesan for my liking, and I'm a little lactose. (still in slight denial). It did not take away from my meal, because it was awesome and I have leftovers. HOLLAR!

This is the real deal, as many of the reviews have stated. We were greeted warmly by owner. He seated us right by the window near the door--the best seat in my opinion--as you can see people walking by outside and you have your own private dining area. The food was fantastic--I tried the Veal Saltimbocca. Excellent! The wait staff were attentive and friendly. The ambiance is quite nice--down home--and you can tell it is family-owned. My partner has Salmon and it was amazingly seasoned well. Definitely we will be coming back. If you park in the garage under the Hilton, it is a short walk.

Tremendous Mom & Pop place - literally. The Mom makes all the dishes, Pop is the host that entertains (and sings!). Their daughters are the great waitresses. Six of us had all different dishes, they were all amazing. All the pasta is home made. Take the staff's recommendations, and start with the Bruschetta.

I was in a mood for some authentic Italian food. 

This was the place! 

It is a family run restaurant in the heart of North Beach. As you walk by the restaurant, the owner welcomes you in. Opens the door for you and greets you in Italian. 

The wife smiles at you and seats you at the table. The whole experience reminds you of returning home. The smell of homecooked food that fills the room, the subtle Italian music in the background and the many old photos that decorate the walls just say welcome and enjoy!

I had the linguine with the fresh clams and white wine sauce. It was amazing! Linguine was cooked al dente. I only wished there were more clams. My friend had the Pasta Pescatora with mixed seafood and tomato sauce. I loved it. It was really flavorful and shrimp, mussels, and clams were outstanding. We ended with the panna cotta. My girlfriend and I are always on a look out for the best panna cotta since our travels to Italy. So far, we haven't had much luck until we came here! Thank you, Franchino for helping us find an excellent panna cotta. 

There are many Italian restaurants in North Beach but this is one that is exceptional and not too touristy.

Great Service! I loved being greeted at the door when we arrived (Older Italian gentleman, probably the owner?) The food was really good, I had pappardelle pasta with Italian sausage and a tomato based sauce. It was excellent, I practically licked my plate clean. For dessert, I had a cannoli perhaps one of the best ever. We got there before it became totally packed. It reminded me of what a gem North Beach can be in the way of Italian food.

Was this review …?
Useful
 
Funny
 
Cool
   
The Gnocchi is to die for. You must try it at least once. Perfectly puffy pillows of   potato-ey goodness = pure Heaven. 

We came here first on Independence Day without reservations but the family was very accommodating. The second time was just 2 weeks ago on a slower night but we had the same exceptional experience. The dad greets everyone as they enter, or even out on the sidewalk, and you get the double cheek European kiss-kiss, mom is running around in her orthopedic shoes and support hose supervising the kitchen, wait staff, balancing on a step stool to get more wine, etc... The wait staff is their daughters and maybe a couple of others but we had the same waitress both visits so she must live there too. They also seem to be open when other places are closed like late Sunday nights. 

I had the gnocchi both times, the first time they customized the sauce for me blending the creamy Alfredo with marinara for a nice blush sauce. The second time I went with the cream sauce with a tiny hint of the Gorgonzola cream. It is very light and melts in your mouth and doesn't give you that heavy feeling later as if you have a sack of potatoes in your stomach. It is also offered with a pesto sauce, but like I said, you can ask for any pasta with any sauce, not just what they've designated on the menu. My friends have tried the Fettuccine Alfredo, lasagna, chicken parm and all were excellent. Had a bottle of red wine the first visit, cannot remember what, but it was medium priced, recommended by the waitress and was a very good choice. The second visit, only I was drinking so I had a glass of red wine, again can't remember what, but it was good. I think at the first visit we had either the Bruschetta or the Tomato-mozzarella Caprese salad and it was excellent also. 

On to dessert... I've only tried the Tiramisu, along with my dinner companions, and it is great.... perfect creamy custard texture and the espresso flavor comes through ever so gently. Am I still talking about food?? I don't know, the sensation is too magic for words to describe. 

The bathroom is small but well kept but be warned: the walls are thin and you can hear the kitchen noise from one side and patrons talking and clinking their dishes on the other as if they are in there with you. 

OK, the place is small, but I think that is part of its appeal. It's amazing what these people do in such a tiny space, juggling tables around in the tiny triangular shaped dining room to accommodate different sized parties that walk through the door. And I love the decor, the mirrors and giant reproductions of beautiful artwork especially the breathtaking "Le Repos" by Bouguereau http://www.bouguereau.... 
which I seem to be lucky enough to get seated in front of each time (and lucky enough to have seen the original at the Cleveland Museum of Art ;) My second visit was the day after Christmas so they had a few delicately placed light displays and potted Poinsettias along the windowsills. Very festive but understated. Something that other places in North Beach have trouble achieving.

Good food. The owners are friendly and funny. The place is really small though. You can probably stand in the middle of the main room and touch half the tables in the restaurant.

I actually have been to this place a couple of times.  Its always a great place to show off whenever I have visitors in town.  But I held off reviewing because I first wanted to compare it to actual Italian food from Italy.  Now having had that experience this week, I still think Franchino's restaurant might be the best Italian food ever.  Here's why:

1.) Franchino greets you as if you were family every time you enter his restaurant.  He remembers me by name even though I've only been there three times!
2.) All their food is fresh and homemade.  They go to the market every day to get fresh vegetables and spices.   The pasta is homemade as his family gets to the restaurant every morning at 7am to start prepping.
3.) Franchino sings.  
4.) Most importantly, the food is fantastic.  The food isn't heavy or greasy.  And the portion sizes are just right.

As great as Franchino's is, just realize that you'll probably spend at least $90 for a date (plus wine) if you get an appetizer and two meals.  But trust me its worth it.

This is the BEST Italian I've ever had, outside my grandmothers kitchen. A++!

I took my roommate and her parents here for dinner on a Saturday night.  As soon as I walked in I felt the family vibe with the owners asking my name and how I was doing an telling me that my party was late.  It was a great atmosphere!   The servers were also especially nice and helpful.  While it was empty at 6:30, there was a line outside at around 7:30.  I got the pasta primavera with pesto which was amazing, the pesto was very fresh and not too heavy on top of the light penne noodles.  Apparently, the wine was to die for, a Chianti although I can't recall the name, the owner said that they order it special from Italy.  We got the tiramisu and the chocolate dipped cannoli.  I would recommend both! The tiramisu was very light and airy with a strong espresso taste (my personal favorite). The cannoli lived up to my roommate's father's expectations who had never had good cannoli before.  It was a wonderful experience and I am planning on going back soon.

This review is long overdue. A few months back, the Then-Boyfriend-Now-Fiance and I were in the North Beach when hunger struck. We happened to walk past Franchino's and were examining the menu when the owner himself came out and trapped us. I mean it. He shook our hands, introduced himself and basically kidnapped us and deposited us into seats. I'm glad he did.

We were introduced to Josephina, his wife, who runs the kitchen and is a pleasant, loquacious hostess. I ended up getting the Fettucine Franchino (with prosciutto, peas and mushrooms) and the Then-Boyfriend-Now-Fiance got one of the specials. I think it was papardelle with Italian sausage. The specials are great because all of the pasta is handmade. That means they don't dry the pasta out which results in a fuller, richer flavor. 

The food is delicious. It tastes homemade, what I imagine my Italian grandmother would make me if I were Italian. The place is very small and only seats about 20 people at once. Franchino may ask you if you wouldn't mind sharing a table with someone else. Don't feel pressured into accepting. Turnover is pretty good, so you might wait around 15-20 minutes. 

Pricewise, Franchino's is a little expensive - about 15-18 bucks for a pasta dish, a bit more for other dishes. Don't expect anything fancy though! The bread they serve is often cold and when it's really busy, you might not get your order taken as quickly as you'd like, but just enjoy Franchino's effusiveness and go with the flow.

As a little piece of trivia, the Then-Boyfriend-Now-Fiance and I asked Franchino on our first visit if the restaurant was named after him. It is but Franchino is his middle name. Francesco is his first name and after a little bit of thought, he said he preferred it, but he doesn't care either way.


I wish I was here right now. It is normal, non-yuppified Italian and the service is quite good, as is the overall food quality.

Also unlike most Italian non-yupster joints in LA, this place is not serving trough-worthy slop to people that have no idea what non-yup Italian food is supposed to taste like.

Italian food in the mission... I shouldn't have had such high expectations. 

Service gets an A+ and it makes me compelled to make this four stars but unfortunately, the food was only average. I can understand the local appeal of the place given there are not very many italian options and it is good enough, but it is not something I would make a separate trip for.

My group got: Al Funghi pasta with cream sauce, Eggplant Parmagiana, Chicken Parmagiana, Veal Parmagiana (we're creative, I know), and Tortilini with pesto sauce. We also got bruschetta for appetizer in addition to the piping hot bread they serve as soon as you get there. Everything was pretty average, nothing stood out. 

Prices are fair (typical pasta dish is 10-15) and they give a generous serving of wine.

Hard to find good Italian food in the neighborhood, and this one's the closest to home. 

Our bread was kind of burnt, but after slapping on that butter, it was almost perfect. 

There were three servers on the floor. Two of them were nice and smiley, and the third one was very robotic-like and not too friendly.

The food was legit. I got the linguine with the manila clams and they were very generous with those clams! Tried my mom's chicken - GOOD! and my cousin's pasta with creamy sauce - YUM!

There were a few birthdays going on and they'd blast the happy birthday song. My mom told one of the servers it was my birthday too, but they didn't play the song for me. I was kind of relieved because I didn't want everyone staring, but at the same time disappointed because they did not acknowledge me! Even a candle on my dessert would've been nice. :(

We were seated in the back of the restaurant, and when we got home, realized our clothes smelled like food. I really hate smelling like food. Good thing we weren't dressed in our finest duds like everyone else was.

Listed in: Mission Eats & Drinks

I had the pleasure of eating here again and was less charmed by the place, which feels more old than cute now. The food portions are very generous but the quality is exceedingly average. It's not bad by any means, but not worth a special trip if you don't live nearby.

Was this review …?
Useful
 
Funny
 
Cool
   
I had the pleasure of eating at La Traviata last night.  I have to say that you don't find places… Read more »

I loved the interior decorating first of all. The inside of the restaurant, paired with the traditional italian music, really created the general atmosphere. It made me want to go straight home and watch The Godfather! which is exactly what I did!
I ordered the breaded mozzarella & marinara for an appetizer, it tasted just as good as mozz-sticks, but was bigger, and smothered in sauce.  The bread was hot, and delicious. Tasted freshly baked, and the butter melted right in front of my eyes.  I ordered the prawns and tomato sauce, which was amazing. My only complain was that I prefer angel hair, and they only had regular sized noodles.  My girlfriend got the carbonara, bacon and cream sauce.  We were both beyond satisfied with the whole experience. Best italian we've had outside North Beach! I'll definitely go here again!

went here for birthday dinner. It was suggested by my brother. It's small. It's in between taquerias. They have the hottest bread I've ever had. Just put the butter in and watch it melt. Also, it tastes really good. I had the chicken tosca special which was chicken breast with a provolone wrapped asparagus in the middle. It was all moist and served with steamed vegetables witha side of tortellini ($17.95). We also had the calamari which was the fresh kind, not the breaded and deep fried and the eggplant which had cheese on it. 

The meal was really good and the wine was reasonably priced. Would definitely go back here if in the area and in the mood for Italian.

Excellent food. Very simple and authentic. It was rainy and gross outside but you come inside and feel like you are a million miles away from the rain and mayhem on mission.
The antipasta misto had good meat and cheeses. The Caprese wasn't anything special but was fine. The Carbonara and Eggplant Parmigiana were both very tasty. Simple but quality food. Yelp has their hours wrong so ignore that. The owner and wait staff are very attentive. YUMMY!

We stumbled onto this place by complete accident. La Traviata is perfect in every sense of the word. 

The ambiance: 
Cozy, yet you feel like the entire place was set up just for you. Has beautiful opera music in the background, but just loud enough for you to enjoy and not interrupt your conversation. Fresh roses at every table. You FEEL the effort they put in this restaurant and you don't want to leave.

The staff:
One of the best servers I've ever had the pleasure of meeting. An Italian server, who knew the food inside and out, knew their wine and made the night just a pleasure.

The food:
Phenomenal bread! 

Our Antipasto Misto went beautifully with our bottle of Nero d'Avola. The server recommended that particular Sicilian wine based on the dishes we ordered, as well as our personal preferences. We must have chatted with him for over 20 minutes, regarding the wine, and he really seemed like he was enjoying the conversation and took his time to go over every choice.

I ordered the Alla Carreras, which was a steal for $13. Perfectly cooked and seasoned pasta with pieces of Italian sausage, mushrooms, & fresh tomatoes. 

A friend ordered the Carbonara. She just loved the pancetta (Italian bacon) lightly tossed in eggs, cream and butter with her pasta. Only $12!

If you care about a classy girl, especially if she loves Opera, then this is a MUST date place. You will seriously thank me! 

Definitely an unforgettable night in San Francisco. Thank you, La Traviata.
We had dinner at All'Oro in Rome. The food, atmosphere and service were excellent. It is one of the best meals I have had in Rome and I have already recommended it others.
Fantastic - every course was special - the exploding pasta is brilliant the whole meal experience was a pure delight I could recommend this restaurant to everyone who would listern - Best meal we had in Rome - Fantastic you must give it a try.
All'oro in Rome was fantastic. We chose All'oro for a special dinner in Rome and it did not disappoint. It is very rare for a Michelin starred chef to be so attentive to his diners. Ricardo was great, speaking to us after dinner and checking how our meal was. Fabulous service and atmosphere. Would definitely recommend.
We went there inspired by the fine reviews we read but at the end we felt a little disappointed. Food: The first courses(fagottini and ravioli) were excellent (although they really were too small) and the in-between amouse-bouches were very good. The fish was good but it was served with a raw egg sauce that was a little too "provocative" and the boiled beef was mediocre. The dessert (ravioli di cioccolato) was awfully salty and bitter. Service: Mediocre, invasive and not too attentive.
All'Oro is definitely a step up from the Roman standard and offers interesting modern interpretations of Italian food. Some of these were very good others, less so. We did the four course tasting menu, like three of the dishes and were just disappointed with the pig trotter dish which we did not finish. Service was very friendly, but patchy and a touch slow. Good wine list, but wines by the glass were deeply boring making them quite overpriced. All'Oro is worth a visit, but not a pure gold.
Outstanding although expensive.
All' Oro is undoubtably the best restaurant I have been to this year. Service was incredibly attentive and wonderful explanations given for everything we ate! Menu is more expensive than the sample menu in TT, but it can be forgiven. We have the suckling pig -which was outstanding, as well as the stuffed pheasant with a starter of spaghetti.Will return again and again - only wish this restauarant was in London.
All'Oro is a lovely little restaurant about 15 mins walk north of Villa Borghese. During our lunch there we were the only customers which ensured a very personal service. Foord was great, especially the salt cod tiramisu. For a special evening out in Rome this restaurant ticks all the boxes and is highly recommended. Only slight let down was that we and the restuarant forgot about the free olive oil gift.
Restaurant was very nice. Service was excellent and the staff very friendly. However I found the prices were slightly different on top table to what the restaurant charged (also they gave my husband the menu with the prices, not me). The general cost across dishes was around 20 euros each - so between 2 people a 4 course meal and bottle of wine adds up. However, the food and service was worth the money, but be aware of the real cost if you are expecting to pay less.
All'Oro in Rome was a fantastic resturant. It is small but produces such a great atmosphere. We got a bit lost trying to find it - make sure you know where you are going first! The service was great - typically Italian. We had a wonderful bottle of red with our meal ans had a thoroughly relaxing time. Highly recommended.
All'Oro in Rome was a great place. Fantastic food, which was very 'experimental' but absolutely well judged by the very helpful and informative owner. The chocolate ravioli was amazing! One word of warning: don't go when you're hungry - the portions are tiny.
All'Oro in Rome is a top class restaurant and highly recommended. Its quite small and out of the way, but the food, service and, based on what is served, value is excellent. The chef himself helped us choose from the menu and we enjoyed it all, as well as an excellent and reasonably priced bottle of wine. An especially nice change if you've been eating pasta and pizza in central Rome in the past few days.
All'Oro in Rome is absolutely wonderful. The enthusiasm for food shown by the chef and front of house staff was wonderful. The quality was fantastic and the olive oil out of a different world. They made us so welcome. It is a little out of the centre but well worth the effort and incredible value for money. We had the taster menu which I recommend to anyone.
I took my boyfriend for his birthday. The moment we walked into All'Oro we were made to feel like old friends. Our waiter seemed to go out of his way to ensure that we ate and drank the best that Italy has to offer without breaking the bank. The 4 courses were taste sensation on top of taste sensation - none more so than the Chocolate Ravioli for dessert. It was the perfect evening, in the perfect city, at the end of a perfect day. PS: The Olive Oil lived up to expectations - no mean feat!
All'Oro was a delight. The food was delicious, creative, and well cooked. Each dish brought a new experience or flavour. The service was knowledgeable, good humoured and attentive. We felt that we were somewhere very special from the moment we entered the restaurant until we left a couple of hours later with our free bottle of olive oil. Would highly recommend this as a gastronomic experience well worth the expense.
Fantastic food at this little out of town restaurant. Beautiful olive oil offered as part of the deal. A really good wine list to boot.
Very friendly and helpful staff. The food was interesting and good, but a bit overpriced for what you get. A place to try!
The All' Oro is a gem. The food was amazing. I would reccomend that you arrive after 8.30 as we arrived earlie than our booking and ended up on our own for a good hour (but that was our own fault!). It did give us time to chat to the chef and by 9.00pm the place was full and full of local's too which i think shows how it good the place must be.
All Oro is a fabulous cosy hidden gem of a restaurant, the staff are friendly, welcoming and make you feel at home, and have a great deal of knowledge on locally produced ingredients used in their dishes.We were there for valentines weekend and it was really busy but imagine it would be like that all the time so be sure to book. Really is great if you fancy trying something different their braised beef cheek was divine!!
We really liked All'Oro. The food was exceptional. We were in a party of four, and the choice of tables was slightly difficult as the restaurant is very small. Two of our party wished we had tried the tasting menu, and would return to do so. 
All'Oro was a dream restaurant! The food was incredible, high quality, creative and innovative. The service was wonderful warm and friendly. The All'Oro olive oil is the finest olive oil I have ever tasted. Infact we drank it on its own, like a fine fruit juice. I highly recommend you get to this restaurant before the chef hits the big time and the food prices take a hike. It is inevitable!!! Definitely purchase a bottle of the olive oil.
Nice service but a little bit expensive.
I took my husband to Rome for his birthday and decided to book All'Oro restaurant for lunch. It was the best lunch we ate, the food was amazing, the service excellent and we even met the chef who trained in London, it made the birthday very special. After having been to thie restaurant, we believe it should be awarded a michelin star. Also, if you have any special dietary requirement, this restaurant tries its best to cater for you and this type of service nowadays is very rare.
All'oro was a nice and international oriented restaurant in the chique are of parioli in Rome. The taxi ride was still quite far although we were staying close to piazza de popolo. The restaurant is very modern and the food and service exceptional. We got very good recommendations for the food and wine.
The meal at the All Oro restaurant was one of the highlights of our Roman vacation. Strange as it sounds, I am still dreaming of the salt cold tiramasu starter. The pastas were original, light and delicious. While we love the food at most Italian trattorias, there is no denying that the menus all start to look the same after a while. The chef at All Oro, however, has taken local ingredients and made something truly original, and delicious. Finally, the service is warm and informative.
All'oro is a throughly enjoyable experience, somewhat off the beaten track but highly recommended.
I decided to venture to All'Oro because it came highly recommended by my chef friend in London. It didn't disappoint at all - the cuisine was creative and extremely tasty and the wine list surprisingly long and complete for such an intimate restaurant. My friend who came with me was completely blown away by dishes such as baccala tiramisu and oxtail rocher. I personally think its a matter of time before this place gets a michelin star so go now before they raise prices!
Best meal I've had in Rome! Service, ambience, food, wine were all perfect. The cuisine was fun, daring and delicious. The amuse bouce set the tone nicely for the rest of the meal whilst the maitre'd was attentive and friendly. We had the set menu which included items such as Oxtail Ferrer Rocher. I'd say its really good value for money considering the quality of the food. The chef is also really friendly and he home makes all items including the bread. Highly recommended!
Ad Hoc, Superb food and excellent service. We had the roman taster menu which was great value for money and gave us a great opportunity to try an array of dishes that we wouldn't normally order. Fantastico!
Had an amazing evening at Ad Hoc. Food and service couldn't be faulted.
Ad Hoc in Rome is conveniently located in the city and offers a pleasant atmoshere in which to relax. The Sea & Land tasting menu promised much, but failed to entirely deliver. Whilst the food was good, the service fine and the wine ample and good quality, there lacked something in the overall package. Good, but not great.
Adhoc, in Rome is a nice little restaurant set up like a wine cellar. The food was fantastic and we were given 3 tasting starters, 2 tasting pastas, a main course and 3 desserts. A different wine was served with each meal. Only thing that let the restaurant down was the length of time between courses. Not too much of a problem but we were left waiting at the beginning without any wine even!
I took my wife here for valentines day and it was absolutely fantastic in every way, I have no complaints what so ever with the Ad Hoc restaurant in Rome. The best food I have ever tasted quite literally and the wine wow.
I visited Ad Hoc in Rome with 3 other friends and we were lucky enough to have the tasting menu with wine flight. Amazing value for money. The cost was 59euros each and in London you would probably have to pay £150 per head for what we had. Tasting menus often are associated with relatively small portions, but here there was plenty on offer, and it was all very tasty and beautifully presented. Similarly, the 5 wines that we had, were all very generous in volume. If you are in Rome you should go!
The highlight meal of our trip to Rome. Chose the Land/Sea menu with wine for 59 Euros per person. As a gastronomic experience, this was wonderful and we really enjoyed it. If we go back to Rome, this will be the first night's meal without a doubt.
Amazing food, excellent wine. Without doubt the best food and service we experienced in Rome.
A cold snowy slushy night in Rome with no taxis meant a metro ride and a walk to Ad Hoc. We were a party of 10 just of the plane and we had a superb evening - met with a Prosecco welcome drink we proceeded to eat and drink our way through the menu !. A great wine list – magnums of Luce and we all had a good mix of the meat sea and truffle tasting menus – all very good and I would say fair value .No complaints We left in fine fettle and with the snow receding in two taxis !
Ad Hoc in Rome was fantastic. Seriously best restaurant I have been to. Top food, top service. Thanks.
perfect place :-) great food!
Went here for a special birthday with a group of 6 people and had a fantastic time! By far the best restaurant we ate in whilst in Rome. Was not overpriced, the menu was extensive and varied, the breads were beautiful. The waitress was very helpful. If I had of been in Rome longer we would definitely have gone back. The only thing I didnt like was the black truffle on my carbonara - but thats personal preference. The whole party was impressed and thoroughly enjoyed the meal and setting.
I booked the Sea and Land tasting menu at Ad Hoc as a birthday treat for my partner whilst visiting Rome for the weekend. Absolutely perfect evening - the food was sensational as were the wines. The service was fantastic and the venue was top quality. My only slight criticism is that the mash potato served with the fillet steak was a bit on the cool side. 
We visited Ad Hoc in Rome and are so glad we did! Luckily we booked through Top Table as people who hadnt booked were been turned away whilst we were there. The staff are lovely and take the time to explain all the courses and wine. We had the Roman tasting menu and was amazed you get so much more for your money than you expect. Highly recommended, although only go on an empty stomach!
A pure gourmet delight, Ad Hoc in Rome was welcoming on the snowiest night since 1985-especially when a glass of prosecco was served as soon as we sat down.Nestled among shelves of wine, we shared a trio of scrumptious starters.We both choose amberjack (fish) for our main course layered with crusted potatoes-bliss. Each course was carefully explained & ingedients were fresh & local unlike the clients who seemed to be mainly British. Go there & indulge in the tasting menu.
Lived up to previous reviews . Top class food complimented by SuperDrive wines ( not even a real wine lover and even I could tell they worked with courses)we had roman menu got bottle of water and gift at the end . All for €100,will definitely book again if ever in Rome.
We went to Ad Hoc on our last night on holiday in Rome. We decided to try it based on the trip advisor reviews (our other meals in Rome had been v poor), and also the fantastic offer on Top Table (Roman style tasting menu with wine €50). My boyfriend was reticent at first (he's a fussy eater) but he was soon won over by the food here. Everything tasted delicious (particularly the truffle pasta) & the food was well paired with the wine. The portions were very generous too. Highly recommended.
Ad Hoc - Rome Was lovely!! tasting menue left me full up! wines were really nice.
Lovely romantic restaurant. Great service and excellent wines. The food is slightly salty for my taste.
This has to be one of the best restaurants I have ever had the pleasure of dining in. I've been all over the world and this place has stood out from everywhere. The service was unbelievable and the food was purely amazing. Not a bad thing to say about it, the setting was amazing and just everything was perfect. You HAVE to eat here for dinner if you're ever in Rome. Amazing.
The meal was exactly as we expected from reading the details from top table, but what was very special was that the restaurant make a birthday cake and sang Happy Birthday especially for my mother's 70th birthday and did not charge anything additional to the set price. The wine pairings with the meal were fantastic and that is from 4 people who do not drink a lot of wine (although when they do, they like to drink a nice wine) and the whole ambiance of the restaurant just made it a great nice.
Roman menu with wine was very nice. Staff were very attentive. Nice venue and atmosphere. would definitely recommend.
Fab food amazing wine but slow service.
Had a wine paring promotion menu. The selecion of wine were just amazing and went very well with the food. For the price of 55 euro per head we were served one complimentary proseco, a glass of chadonnay, a glass of Castello di Ama Rose, a glass of Brunello (Casanova di Neri!!) and dessert wine. Highly recommend the place. However, I had a bit of problem ordering sea (lobster) menu and ended up having served land menu (truffle menu) instead.
Went to Ad Hoc in Rome for dinner on our last evening based on the overwhelmingly positive reviews on toptable and tripadvisor. The food was above average but really nothing exceptional. The service was kind to seat us early ahead of our reservation, but was sometimes unattentive (forgot to bring us water). Overall it's good value with the tasting menu which included wine pairings.
Ad Hoc in Rome was excellent and I highly recommend it. I had the Truffle Tasting Menu which was superb, and service was excellent. Dessert could be better though.
Went to Ad Hoc in Rome for our engagement dinner on a Saturday evening. It was more than just worth it. We are tireless foodies and had not been to such a lovely place in years. The food was delicious and great value on the tasting menu, with very generous portions and perfectly matching wines. The setting is romantic, unpretentious and original and the service absolutely second to none. We really can't fault this venue at all. We will surely go back in our next visit to Rome.
We booked our anniversary meal at Ad Hoc in Rome, after reading many reviews on Trip Advisor. We chose the Roman taster menu - started with a glass of Prosecco, a small amuse bouche and a tray of mixed home-made breads. Then followed 4 courses, each with its own glass of wine. The food was beautiful and delicious, but 45 minutes between antipasta and pasta courses was really too long, and we found the main course very rich. Nice atmosphere, and lovely not having to make decisions!
A fabulous restaurant. The food was excellent as was the wine list and the service second to none. A great night out and I will definitely go again when next in Rome.
Lovely setting, delicious food with great wine pairings. Would definitely recommend!
I loved the venue - wine bottles galore! great food (but too much), great value with the matching wines, and they even gave us a free bottle of fizz at the end. highly recommended.
Fantastic value for meal, friendly staff. We definetely come back!
Booked this restaurant after having read reviews on Tripadvisor. It was a great choice, and suceeded my expactiations! Very proffessional staff, great food. I will return!
Great little restaurant.
Ad Hoc in Rome was amazing! Service, staff and food over the top. Great atmosphere and we did two of the tasting menus. I had the roman and my husband had the land....both were fabulous and really great wine selections. And how can you go wrong with Vin Santo with your dessert. Probably the best Tira Misu I have ever had....and the pasta with truffles you could smell the moment it was placed in front of you. A very wonderful experience!
We went to this restaurant on Nov 1st 2011.We made a reservation for the 8 course tasting menu with wine. We thoroughly enjoyed our experience in this restaurant. The staff were very friendly and welcoming. The food was fabulous. It was presented very well and tasted just as good. The wine was also chosen carefully for each course and after making the reservation through toptable our bill for this wonderful meal came to 100euro. Excellent value. Highly recommend this restaurant if visiting Rome
Excellent meal and wines at Ad Hoc,Via di Ripetta, Rome on 15th October. We had chosen the Roman Style cuisine tasting menu and the selection was both varied and enjoyable. It was great value. Friendly efficient service in an atmospheric setting. It would rate as our favourite meal in Rome and was overall a good experience. Thanks to Massimiliano Laganà and team.
Food was very good. Service very friendly and efficient to start. However it got slower after main course and we waited an uncomfortably long for the main course to be cleared. The tiramisu was disappointing. The beef carpaccio was excellent, grilled prawns and special for the day spagetti with beef ragout and truffle was food. The lady server was excellent, professional and personable.I would certainly recommend this to friends. Set in a convenient spot.
Ad Hoc ,Rome is not just a meal an incredible dining experience. Saved 40 euros by booking though top table. We opted for the Roman style menu with wine parings which were amazing. Each course came with a full explaination about both the food and the wine. Included in the price we also received a pre starter, two bottles of Pelegrino, two plates of gorgeous breads, coffee (offered but we did not have room!), a plate of petit fours and amazingly a bottle of Spumante to take away. A must.
Wonderful. Fantastic atmosphere, amazing interior and lovely owner and waitresses who are there to help with wine and food choices as well as generally make sure you're having a good time. Sensational food. Loved it.
We had a lovely meal at Ad Hoc in Rome. They didn't automatically register that we had booked the set menu through TopTable, but were quite happy to give us the (very) reduced menu price. Food was excellent and plentiful with a strong Italian theme. The restaurant decor was very pleasant and avoided being stuffy. The service was good with knowledgable staff. We would recommend to others.
Ad Hoc, Rome. This restaurant is well worth a visit, the staff are extremely friendly and efficient , and the food is excellent. I think it would be best to book in advance as it was busy the night we dinned.
Ad Hoc..... Nearly but not quite. Lot's of plaudits and I guess we expected a lot. First, they didn't seem to be expecting us. Not an issue and we were really impressed with the initial service. 2 of choose the tasting menus - the land was very good - the sea seriously lacked flavour. e took the wine option too and these were not up to standard at all. Pleasant at best, exceptional not. One of the desserts had curdled but the waitress would not have it.
njoyable dinner at Ad Hoc in Rome. We had Toptable's Land and Sea tasting menu offer with wine paring. We enjoyed our meal very much. But I think the restaurant's tasting menu is somewhat different from that offered through Toptable. It seems that we might have missed sone of their special dishes. May be a good excuse to go there again. Nevertheless the offer is really of a good value. The price includes food, wine and even bottled water. The food was of high standard, too.
Ad Hoc, Rome, The Roman tasting menu was broad with small varied portions of food at each plate. The wines were very good. All was accompanied by explanations of the dishes or wines. A nice experience.
We chose this restaurant because of the reviews on Top table and it certainly didn't disappoint! We went for the All inclusive sea and land tasting menu, which was excellent and significantly cheaper if booked through top table. The quality and presentation of the food was excellent and the pairing wines were of very good quality, especially the Brunello di Montalcino which really was first class! Friendly, knowledgeable staff. Could hardly fault it!
The restaurant is on a beautiful street that runs between Piazza di Popolo & the river Tiber. The staff were friendly (and very pretty) and made us feel very welcome. The walls are lined with wine bottles and there are only a few tables. They were turning people away all night, no-one got in that hadn't pre-booked. The food was fresh and well cooked, portions werent huge but were adequate for my son and myself. We were sat amongst tables of 4 and a table with 2 women. Dress is smart casual.
Ad Hoc, Rome - a top quality restaurant with a good central location. Had the Roman tasting menu and my wife the seafood tasting, both with wine. We enjoyed all courses and the accompanying explanations of the food and wine. Would recommend it to anyone visiting Rome - particularly someone interested in fine wines.
On our recent trip to Rome we went to Life and had the Sea taster menu which was lovely, the service, quality of food and atmosphere was so good we went back on the last night of our trip. If we return to Rome we will be going back.
Went to Life during a weekend in Rome. Good food, very good service but I was a bit disappointed by the atmosphere. I liked other Italian restaurants better on that weekend.
Life Restaurant Rome. Modern, stylish with pop art covering walls. We had the four course truffle tasting menu with wine which we feel was excellent value for money.Each course was beautifully presented and the dishes and wines were individually described by our charming young waiter.This was the first of two venues recommended by top table and we were not disappointed with either.
Life, close to the Spanish Steps in Rome. Very trendy modern restaurant. Very good service and amazing food.
Life restaurant in Rome was Fantastic, would certainly recommend it.
Life in Rome was recommended to us by a relative. We really enjoyed celebrating Valentine's Day meal in this restaurant. We selected the 'meat' set menu that proved to be excellent value together with different wines accompanying each course. The staff were friendly, able to explain well all the dishes and unitrusive at the same time. We felt welcome and we thoroughly enjoyed the quality food on offer. Would highly recommend it.
Amazing food, very good service, very good price and great location. Loved our Valentines Nigt there.
Lovely meal at Life! Visited on the basis of previous reviews and was not disappointed. The tasting menus are excellent value. Only criticism (a small one) is that the tables are crammed in too tight for private conversation - so maybe not for a romantic evening. Definately worth a visit!
Great restaurant picked based on previous reviews & lived up to expectations. Very attentive staff (but not overly so) and the taster menu's of truffle & lobster a great choice - just be careful not to eat all the homemade bread as may struggle with the last couple of course. Not too expensive at €55 & €60 including wine to go with each course and a good atmosphere to boot.
My husband and I enjoyed dinner at this restaurant on valentines day and we were not disappointed! We opted for the truffle tasting menu and each course was delicious - we could not fault it. Highly recommend this restaurant to anyone visiting Rome.
First straight 10's review I have given. On a really snowy and cold night the welcome was warm and sincere. We had the lobster offer with matching wines, every course was fresh, very tasty and wines went very well. It was impossible to find fault and we will go again.
Great venue, welcome, service and food excellent, and to top it all, great value! Life is the restaurant to visit if you are in Rome and love your food and wine. We had the Lobster tasting menu, each course was served impeccably and tasted superb.
Tucked away in a little side street, abit hard to find but worth it! As soon as we walked in staff we were very welcoming and spoke good English. Even the manager came over and gave us a nice welcome. We went for the €50 per person deal. We were offered a nice glass of prosecco on arrival. We had a four course meal with a nice glass of red wine with each, the dessert offered a nice orange liqueur. While we skipped coffee we were offered another glass of lemon liqueur. Alot of food for us, we were so full but definitely worth it. The only negative point would be the beef we had. It wasn't really a steak but sliced bits of beef, nevertheless they were still nice. Just make sure your hungry when you come to this place because there is so much food to eat! Definitely worth a visit!
Amazing food and drink. Staff were friendly - will go back again!
Life, Rome. Excellent tasting menu. Food plentiful. Service impeccable. Great wine selection with each course and plenty of it.
I went to Life for my wife's birthday while we're in Rome, I had the lobster taster menu and booking through toptable gives you 5 EUROs off it, you also have the non-wine choice which brings the costs down by another 10 EUROS (if i didn't remember incorrectly). Food tasted/presented excellent and service was top notch, my wife is a vegetarian so she ordered a pizza and together without alochol it cost us 60 EUROs which was great value, highly recommended for special occasions! A must try in Rome.
Having dinner at Life was absolutely a highlight of our weekend in Rome. The ambiance of the restaurant is very nice, while still maintaining a relaxed vibe. The black truffle tasting menu was an amazing, amazing deal - four courses all paired beautifully with wonderful Italian wines, plus an aperitif and lemoncello. The service was excellent and so friendly, I would definitely recommend!
We had the lobster tasting. This was delicious and very fresh. Would certainly recommend for a romantic night out in Rome.
A little gem located in the heart of Rome's shopping area. We went for the lobster tasting menu and thought it was very good value. Within the price we recieved four large glasses of wine, a glass of prosecco and a glass if lemoncello. The only criticism, which isn't one really, is that this wasnt really a tasting menu, it was one large starter, two decent size main courses and a desert. We pretty much had to roll out of the restaurant. Very enjoyable though.
An amazing chilled out, modern restaurant in a lovely part of Rome....not packed with tourists - phew! We were treated like royalty as soon as we walked through the door. The owner and the waiters are so friendly and the tasting menu is out of this world. We can't wait to go back!
The wines were quite fine. welcome drink was included in the offered price. food was not something special. Very good value.
Had lobster menu with wine. Lovely food from starter to desert, very attentive staff, pleasant venue, great value for money. Would definitely recommend.
Life in Rome is excellent! At first it doesn't look like the typical romantic restaurant, but the service and the food are worth all the price it charges! Both I and my fiancee were delighted by the food in the lobster and black truffle tasting menu and consider that the best food we have had in our 4 days in Rome! The wine we had match amazingly with the food! Grazie!
Booked thr Truffle set meal at Life, Rome on the 30th December, and was over the moon with the meal. The restaurant itself was great, we were seated in an area at the back with a comfortable corner table.The food was plentiful, with a basket of bread, mixed meat and cheese tasting plate to start, ricotta ravioli, steak and truffle sauce and a lovely dessert. Drinks, we were given a bottle of water for the table, prosecco to start and then 4 large glasses of wine.Service was second to none :)
Only a short few streets from the Spanish Steps, Life is a wonderful modern ristorante with an imaginative chef. We dined here on New Year's Eve when a special 6 course menu was served. Each course was delicious and creative. The staff were very efficient and eager to please, ensuring the meal was orchestrated over a leisurely three hours. I am confident that during a normal meal, the service and quality of cuisine would be of an equally high standard.
Ristorante Life in Rome was one of the best dining experiences during my euro trip across Spain and Italy. The lobster pasta was perfection!
Overall a nice experience but probably a little overhyped.
Excellent very friendly - the set menu with wine was amzing value - and proper glass sizes too!
Excellent meal, very well looked after and exactly what we were looking for for a special occasion
Great place near the spanish steps and the main shopping area. Decor of the restaurant is very nice, menu was varied and food was excellent. Menu ranged from very reasonably priced pizza's (9-12euros) through to higher end cuisine. Definitely worth a visit.
Life, Rome (near Spanish steps and adjacent to Via Condotti). 4-course tasting menu, with wine pairings. We had a lovely experience. Food good. Service good. Our fourth visit to rome and this was the best food that we have found in the city. We went back the following night and ordered a la carte. Again food was good and for the centre of Rome, the prices were reasonable. Only negative, we paid cash and they tried to assume a 40% tip. I had to ask for change and therefore left only small tip!
We had one of our best meals. Not only was the food excellent, they were also able to cater last minute to my partners gluten free diet. My partner had a the black truffle menu (gluten free) and I had dishes off the menu. The staff were very helpful and the atmosphere of the restaurant was superb. Would definately go there again!
Life was the best restuarant we went to in Rome. Our waitress was extremely friendly and the food was superb. Would highly reccomend.
What a find - fantastic value, great food (we had the lobster tasting menu) and wonderful, friendly service. I will definitely go back.
Went to Life on 29 Via della Vite Rome last night for the Black Truffle tasting menu. Each course was plentiful and delicious - in fact the only course we finished was dessert which was a subime sfoglia crocante with chantilly cream and dark chocolate. The accompanying wines were excellent, particularly the dessert wine. Be aware that truffle only appears once in the meal and that is in the sauce with the filet steak - which is lovely but I would have expected it to appear more than once.
We had a warm welcome at Life and the staff were very helpful organising a vegetarian alternative to the truffle tasting menu for me. Food was nice and with the offer came to a very reasonable 99 euros for 4 courses, matching wines and a welcome glass of prosecco for two people. Also liked the push button sliding door into the toilets - very star trek-esque!!
Fantastic PQR! Very friendly staff and nice atmosphere. The food was good and nice paired with wine. No extra (hidden) fees. Go there and try!
It was our wedding anniversary and we were hoping for something a bit special and it was. We had a great evening, good food, good atmosphere and the staff were fabulous.
Life was a refreshing break from the overwhelming number of traditional Roman pizza/ pasta restaurants. The modern decor alone set it apart. The sampler menu was terrific, with creative dishes, good portions and well- chosen wines. Service was friendly, efficient and unhurried. In short- highly recommended!
This was the best meal of our stay! We had the Truffle Tasting Menu. We were first served a glass of Prosecco, continuing with three excellent red wines, poured generously. Then we moved on to a dessert wine from Pantelleria, finishing with limoncello. The food was equally good. We had carpaccio of beef and duck, with 3 cheeses, a wonderful large ravioli, then steak with truffles and truffle sauce--the only truffles of the evening. The dessert was a chantilly cream confection.
In a city full of great restaurants we were not disappointed with this one. We were welcomed by the staff, they were fully aware we were a Top Table booking and were very friendly even though on a 'deal'. The food was very good, the wines were great and when the bill arrived there were no hidden extras just exactly the price indicated. Really very good value.
Life: Rome, IT. Wonderful restaurant. outdoor seating for appropriate evenings. Menu is extensive Italian cuisine with a reasonably priced wine list. Highly recommend.
We had a nice meal at Life in Rome, although it understandably suffered in comparison to our wonderful previous evening's meal at Babette which was a more 'Roman experience' in terms of food and ambience. We had the truffle 'tasting menu' and although it was v nice to have wine with all 4 courses...think it was one course to much - we were stuffed! Would still recommend.
We booked 'Life' after reading the reviews before travelling to Rome and we certainly weren't disappointed. We had the All Inclusive Black Truffle Menu and Lobster Menu with wine and had a fabulous meal with very generous servings of food and wine at an excellent price of 50 euros each. The restaurant is laid out in several small areas and the decor has been beautifully designed by the Manageress (Giovanna) a former architect. There is a great atmosphere and the service fantastic.
Fantastic food and service!
A reason alone to return to Rome. Fantastic night. Friendly and welcoming staff who made the evening very pleasureable. Thank you very much.
Life in Rome was the perfect venue for a family birthday meal.The food was simple but high quality, well cooked and well presented. The matching wines were excellent. We booked a 'tasting' menu, which really was a set menu with matching wine, but was nevertheless excellent value at 50Eur a head. They even managed vegetarin options at the last minute - though with perhaps less success than their meat dishes. It's a trendy venue with beautiful people - so don't go too scruffy!
Great restaurant. One of the best petit restaurants of Rome. Grest dishes, a lot of food, great wine pairing. Go! Go! Go!
One of the best petit restaurant of Rome. The first dish was unforgettable and the rest were adequate. Very nice environment especially if you have the chance to sit outside. The service was great. The value for money was 5*. Visit for the second time this period. Great!
Dining at Algiubagio was an amazing way to begin our Italian adventure. We were fortunate to be served by Giulio, one of the owners of this special waterside Venetian dining venue. After determining that we were on a adventure, Giulio instructed his chief to prepare a special dining experience reflective of Venice. 2 different varieties of scallops, sweet and sour sardines, Fresh Tuna Tartare, and so much more followed by home made ravioli and desserts that were heavenly made thimemorable.
Fantastic place. We went in feb, the coldest feb ever on record, where the canals froze, so the terrace wasnt open, and we were the only people in the whole restaurant! On the plus side, the service was great, but i would have preferred more people for a better ambiance. The food was awesome, steaks cooked to perfection, and their flambed crepe desert was great theatre and tasted as good! Price was reasonable. Would definitely go back.
Great, authentic, freshly made italian food with a good selection of wines to accompany. Had homemade pasta with lobster and strawberries which was amazing! The service was beyond excellent and the whole place well worth the extra walk to get to. Definitely my favourite restaurant I visited in Venice! I would recommend for anyone to go!
il san lorenzo in rome was a little difficult to find - but centrally located- look up on map before you go. lovely atmosphere . the salt baked fish of the day was really fresh and delicious.
It was our wedding anniversary and we asked for a special table. We were given our own exclusive table in the wine cellar with a view down the stylish basement floor of the resaurant. The food and service were excellent.
rome- glass hostaria. - great meal there on a snowy february night. the foie gras ravioli was very rich but amazing. nice modern decor and menu. they gave us complimentary glass of prosecco for booking through TT,but dont know if that always happens.
Glass Hostaria in Rome is absolutely delightful. I enjoyed it equally as much as any similar restaurant in the UK and was thrilled by what good value it was. We decided on the 65 Euro tasting menu, which was perfect. There is a more expensive tasting menu but we didn't like the options on that as much. I can truly say that there wasn't a course I didn't enjoy. If I were ever back in Rome, I would make a point of going back.
Glass Hostaria was as the reviews had suggested once I actually got a table - there was a mix up with table reservations as they didn't have my booking. Food was exceptional.
We really enjoyed our meal at Palazzo petrucci, the food was unusual and very varied but tasty, the chef's amuse Bouche of mozzarella and broccoli with raw prawns was amazing. My soup of onion, egg and cheese another delightful find, would definitely recommend and reasonably priced too. Shame it was quite but it was a Wednesday night , if in Naples mastery as a special night out.
A total joy in rather squalid Naples. The tasting menu is excellent value and you can choose anything from the a la carte as long as it is for the whole table, extra bites come along the way. It deserves to be packed and has a Michelin Star, but on a friday night was 3/4 empty.
Fantastico! Palazzo Petrucci in Naples.
Everything about our meal at Babette was wonderful..the food was inventive and delicious. The waiter was charming and spoken excellent english. One person with us is vegan and they were very helpful to accomodate her wishes. We will go back, definitely!
A great Italian restaurant and a change from all the pizza and pasta places, feels like a real local restaurant, me and my wife had a great time here - highly recommended! We had a shared starter, one pasta one main and two desserts plus wine for 90euro (plus we got a couple of complementary drinks) Highly recommended.
Good food, good service, reasonable price.
the resuarant is beautiful wine excellent food was good.
Amazing view! Great degustation menu, a little overpriced. Good wine list. Go if you are willing to pay around 150 per person. Great restaurant!
over rated. no service, food so so overall.
On a snowy night in Rome Due Ladroni was the perfect place to be. The food was exellent and the staff very helpful and welcoming.
Excellent restaurant. Attentive and very pleasant service. Amazing fresh food, excellently cooked. Would go again when back in Rome and recommend anyone to try (although not cheap, you get good value for money).
Duo Ladroni in Rome was an excellent meal.Quality of seafood thotoughly recommended. Service very pleasant. Ambience very cordial with a great mix of people.
La Cantinella was a disappointment. We did go in february and we were the only people in the restaurant, but unfortunately I do not think it deserves its Michelin star. I eat out in London 5 nights a week and frequent Michelin star restaurants and I am quite sure they would never include tacky plastic plants and I ( a great lover of food and someone who likes most food) actually didn't like a dish enough to not eat it. The staff were very friendly but it didn't make up for the rest.
La Cantinella in Naples gives the impression that the venue is caught in a timewarp - sometime in the 60s, with most attentive service. The food isn't - it is delicious, and includes very interesting combinations, except that the pasta is probably TOO al dente for Brirtish taste. Wine list is stunning and remarkably it is the prices that are in a time warp - many of the best and up and coming Italian winemakers at very, very reasonable prices - if only I could find the same in London!
Really nice, cosy restaurant with delicious italian cousine in a marvellous part of Rome, next to the river promenade and practically in the city historical centre (Trastevere) . Kind owners and resonable prices for fresh fish courses (70€ for 2 ----- 2 starters/2 main courses/water/bread/ delicious white wine/ 1 dessert).
The atmosphere and food were excellent as was the service. I would definitely recommend this restaurant for true, authentic Italian food. Terry.
Rivadestra provided our group of 17 people with an excellent meal with a lovely atmosphere.
The Voy restaurant in Rome was an excellent venue for eight of us visiting to Rome to watch the rugby. The food, service and location was ideal and it fitted in very well with everybody.
Excellent central location, just above the Spanish Steps. Wonderful view across the city. We had the tasting menu - wonderful food, well seasoned and good portions. Came with a choice of wines, slightly detracted from the excellent I would have rated because they served the same wines more than twice, but we did get topped up regularly. there's a very expensive 3* Michelin restuarant in Rome - don't go there, the food is better here in Eden.
La Terrazza dell'Eden in Rome. We had the gourmet menu with matching wines which was excellent. We ate here ten years ago and we were blown away by the views, but the food was not that special. Now the food is as good as the views. Highly recommended.
The best restaurant in Rome, with great views of the city. The food and service was excellent and both my boyfriend and I had the most romantic evening. I highly recommend it!
Ristorante La Cusina in Venice, setting and food were lovely but it should be made clear that the restaurant is within the Westin. We were staying in another name hotel so would have preferred to just eat there or go to a stand alone restaurant. Food and wine was still excellent we were just disappointed that this was not in the details as the restaurant was also hard to find based on the address. Easy to find once you know in the Westin. Great setting by the grand canal.
Great location and good food, as expensive as expected . Also helped with gluten free choices and gf bread too
Lovely setting food ok but service wasn't the greatest and for what we paid I can't help thinking it should have been better.
Great service in a lovely atmospheric restaurant but terrible, overpriced food. we paid over 100 euros for a soup starter each and a spaghetti main course each which were tasteless and small. There are much better restaurants in venice to visit.
We had dinner at La Caravella in Venice on new year's eve 2011. The food and the (ample) wine were both excellent, and the service was very good. The only slight negative was that the staff started clearing the decorations from the dining room while we were still there, but then we were the last to leave (just!) and it was gone 1am! But overall a wonderful evening - not cheap, but worth it in our opinion.
La Caravella was a great experience in Venice. Expensive for what we got in comparison to equivalents in the UK but an excellent meal in a lovely courtyard environment. The waiting staff were friendly and helpful and service was fine and much better than other restaurants we visited in Venice.
Luna is gem that you must never miss if you are in the vicinity of Savona, actually it is worth a rather long detour. It is seldom that you find extremely well prepared food, excellent selection of wine mixed with a very friendly and embracing atmosphere, at a very decent price level.

The two owners of Luna put pride and dedication into all they do. Step into the restaurant on a non busy day and you will in a second know what I’m talking about. 

The menu selection is rather simple, but exquisite and pure homemade, no shortcuts here. 
Don’t let the menu selection scare you off if you bring your kids to the restaurant. Children are also welcome, my daughter at 7 enjoyed some of her best meals here, just ask the kitchen to prepare something for the kids and they will do magic, but don’t expect pizza. 

Actually Luna embraces the full essence of the Italian cuisine, simple recipes prepared from the best vegetables, meat and fish, turned into something magnificent, so if you love food and wine, this is definitely worth a visit or visits because it is addictive:-)
This was the best meal we've had in a really long time...and we live in France! We enjoyed every course of our meal here. The owner and his wife are both very welcoming, friendly people. They utilize the local seafood well. Each dish was well balanced and creative with the flavors. To top things off at the end, we had fabulous desserts made by the owner's wife. Each course was complimented with a perfect wine pairing. If you go here, order the special of the day. It is sure to dazzle your taste buds. Do not miss eating here if you are in Savona!
The dishes and glasses were dirty and the red wine was served all to hot. The risotto more tasted like cooked milk - the rice was pre cooked and was not al-dente. Furthermore it was all too salty.
Fantastic food and a great atmosphere.
The owner was such a doll.
We had heard that Savona was famous for their Pesto so asked if he would be able to do one of his pastas with Pesto - he agreed and stuffed it with pesto as well - amazing.

The desserts were amazing..a different take on the normal Italian desserts which were excellent.
A GREAT find in a more seasonal place.
Excellent food and service - Ithe food is traditional Italian but not like the traditional Ligurian seafood place on every corner, the wine selection is small but they carry very good Italian wines, the staff are very friendly and speak English and French. It is good quality fresh ingredients that are local and in season, therefore the menu changes as vegetables come in season. I bring alot of business associates here and I eat there every week I am in town. Its a bit hard to find and like most places in Savona parking is limited.
Don't go there! The glass and plates are not clean. The seafood is absolutely not fresh and they have no idea at all on how to cook. One of the worst places I've ever been.
Luna Restaurant is a nice surprise in Savona. The restaurant has a good variety of dishes and have chosen great wine for their wine list. The staff are very friendly and they make you feel special visiting their restaurant.
Very friendly with a variety of dishes served with fantasy.
Typical plates alternate with deli from Greece, India and international delis.
Fantastic for a sunset "aperitivo" in front of the sea.
A great meal at Luna Restaurant, the food was great, very fresh and really tasty. The owner and staff were really friendly, greeted us like old friends and were happy to help us translate the menu into Engish. This restaurant is a bit more expensive than other restaurants around the town but absolutely worth every cent!!
Ambiente curato, sala non troppo grossa.
Cibo buono e con verdure di stagione, non eccelle nella scelta ma meglio poche cose ma buone e fresche.
Prezzo medio alto ma per un ristorante da medio alto livello è nella norma.
Non per tutti i giorni a mio avviso, ma per serate particolari è consigliatissimo, siamo rimasti contenti di tutto.
Among those locals from Taormina is reputated as the best restaurant in town. we had a great dinner, and even though it was not cheap (60€ per capita) it was not much more expensive than other restaurants we went and which very very far in terms of atmosphere and quality. 

Very formal place, but perfect for a candles diner.
Coming to Taormina for our wedding last November, everything was a gamble as we did not have first hand knowledge or experience with the town or it's establishments. When we had booked Villa Antonio to host our wedding reception we didn't know what to expect. It is an understatement to say that we were blown away by the service, quality of food and the beauty of the location. The service and staff during the reception was attentive, friendly and did everything possible to make our day feel special. Out of the 25 guests we had invited to our reception, there were several who commented that this was the best food they had ever tasted at any wedding in their experience. Villa Antonio far exceeded all of our expectations and we are so happy to have had our reception there. It definitely was a memorable night we will remember for the rest of our lives.
around Taormina (and Sicily) for a suitable venue.
Initially the place caught our eye for the appearance and view of the beautiful bay of Isola Bella. We then sat down in the main room for the tasting and needless to say we knew we made the right choice.
On the day itself we were absolutely delighted as the food and service was exceptional (Michelin Standard without being overly stuffy). There were 40 guests in total and everyone commented on how beautiful the location was and the stunning food! 
We can't thank enough Lina and Maximo, the matradee and his staff, for such a wonderful reception! 
If there was a single person that derseves special mention, apart from my wife, it's Liz from bouquetsandbows.com, our wedding planner, for helping make our wedding occasion so special and something we will remember forever!
Villa Antonino is not for everyone. It's a little pricey and off the beaten path from the mainstream, but amid the sea of sameness in Taorminian restaurants (almost all are very good) this place stands out as a treat for your palate and a delight for haute cuisine senses.
It was the best experience ever. Though it is expensive, I highly recommend it. It was my wife's birthday. She just loved and that makes me happy
We selected this restaurant for our wedding dinner and it was a bull's eye. The food was extremely tasty and exquisite. The service is very polite and descreet. The wedding cake was nicely decorated and looked enorm. All the guests had a unonimous wow-impression of the place. The interior of the restaurant is simple and very elegant. Surprisingly enough the background music was exactly what my wife likes. So, perefect wedding dinner after a perfect veniue. Bravo Villa Antonio!
We decided to visit the top 1 rated restaurant in Taormina , according to Trip Advisor and it was a really nice evening. First of all, the restaurant is located in a really nice place, that fuilfill our imaginary about Sicily : an old villa built in stone, with a really preserved decoration. Go there to have a drink in the terrazza during the evening, where the light makes the building even more special. The second peak was the service , really good, polite, concerned about the minimum details. It was also a pleasure to see the honor and her family having dinner two tables beside ours. Makes the difference when the owner is always present. The food, was delicious , specially the starter (cocous) , desert and and “a surprise “ just before the desert ( first time that I proved a delicious jelly made of anis. At the end, my wife also get a gift from the owner. A really nice experience for romantic evening.
Wow what a place we have just returned from having our very special wedding reception here, not one of our 40 guests had any reason to complain, the food was superb and on time as we were concerned having attended other weddings ourselves that there would be long delays between tables and courses being served, no such problem here all in our opinion was perfect and i can assure anyone reading this if anyone was going to complain about a restaurant it would be me as i do not tolerate expensive badly cooked food lightly, the chefs at this venue have been trained by the owner Lina's husband Massimo Mantarro chef at the San Dominica Hotel in Taormina and winner of the Gambero Rosso award 2011 all in all we had a wonderful experience and for the canapes champagne followed by four courses plus dessert buffet half a bottle of wine each, 50 beers and the most magnifcent wedding cake ever for 130 euros a head I say that's fantastic value for money, we can't wait to revisit as soon as we can, thankyou Lina and all the staff at Villa Antonio
It is really hard to believe how anyone could describe the food at this restaurant as unexceptional. Our group of four each ordered different dishes and swapped tastes and it was really hard to tell whose choice was best though all agreed that the home-made pasta with seafood and a marrow (courgette) sauce was to die for. 

It is true that the portions are not over-large but this restaurant is about quality, not quantity. To the gentleman below who commented about the size of the portions, I would say that those wanting to stuff themselves should look elsewhere. 

The setting is really romantic as others have commented, ideal for a wedding - in fact a Swedish wedding was being held there as we ate. Wedding parties get to enjoy a drink on the upper terrace with its commanding views of Taormina bay. Unfortunately the restaurant level does not have a view but the atmosphere out in the courtyard is very nice. 

If any improvement can be suggested, it's in the service which was slow due to the wedding - more staff should have been brought in to cope with it. 

Definitely our best meal in a holiday characterised by meals at the best restaurants in Taormina. It was impressive to see a motherly, elderly lady presiding over a restaurant which served such innovative dishes.
Service was incredible. We had a tour of chocolate including the historical traditions of the production process . We sampled enough chocolate to please a king. We can't recommend this enough.
The food was simply amazing. This little place doesn't even look like a Restaurant. The name, indeed, means shop in Sicilian.... And it is a shop of delicious things. You can taste wine and buy cheese and other Sicilian specialities... But most of it, you have the best dinner of your entire life! The service is impeccable and the whole atmosphere is simply brilliant! We had dinner there twice!!!

MUST BOOK A TABLE IN ADVANCE BECAUSE YOU MIGHT NOT FIND A PLACE!
It meets all your expectations of a small, family run Sicilian place, abundant choices, great value for your money, not fancy, and soooo friendly. You feel inside a movie. Do go inside and do not get bad vibes from the plastic chairs in the terrace. Grear assortment of cheeses and salumeria.
We visited this restaurant thanks to the users of this website and our B&B host who also recommended it. We were not disappointed! The staff was super friendly and made every effort to keep us feeling at home. The shrimp and scampi dish with linguini was FABULOUS and the pasta con sarde was as well. We kept on raving about this place even after we got home from our vacation!
Buon appetito and thanks again to our wonderful hosts. We hope to see you soon!
I visited A Putia twice over the last 10 days. It is a small family ran restaurants. The cook is a real Chef the food is really good. I had tuna with safran souse and a Tart with tuna and almonds, egg plan etc. for starter. it was really good and fresh. The second time i had their pasta nero di sepia and it was also good. Fair prices for the quality you get. Dinner for 2 with a bottle of nice wine is 65-70 Euro.
Service is fast and friendly ..but not very professional. Its definitely the best restaurant in Giardini.
A small local restaurant that offers wonderful seafood dishes. Our appetiser was a selection of smoked and raw seafood seasoned beautifully was fantastic. Our pasta dishes of linguini with fresh sea urchin and tagliolini with scampi was first rate quality. Our tuna with saffron sauce was cooked just right, not too overcooked. Excellent! The selection of wine was also impressive and with the suggestion of the Chef we got Cerasuolo di Vittoria. Service was attentive but relaxed and even great for families. Our "A putia" experience is definately worth many visits more.
This Agriturismo is in the middle of the nature, quite close to Costa Rei. Other beaches are not far easily reacheable. Sandro and Cristina find the exact mix of professionalism and hospitality. Food is excellent, music and karaoke in the evening very good (with the singer Monia, what a voice!!). Locals are clean and recently refurbished. We think we will go back and see them next year.
In one sentence: "feel like home"
he hours are odd... (7:30pm-11pm) and the building needs a good shampoo, but the staff have been there forever and the wines are incredible. Most of the wines on the list are not available to the US, so this is your chance to enjoy great wines by the glass. Great experience and even more if you now the Antinori history. Please go...
We had lunch here and liked it very much. It's located inside the Palazzo Antinori, upstairs on a mezzanine. The atmosphere is very pleasant and the food very good. It would not disappoint.
Overpriced and poor service. Reading some of the reviews, it almost feels that we went to a different place to the 5 star restaurant that fellow reviewers describe. Our experience was poor, so perhaps we just got them on a bad day. This is a small wine bar associated with the Antinori vineyard and well located in the centre of Florence. When we went there, the food was what I would describe as "rustic" - hearty and solid but not much finesse. And at 96 Euros for two people having two courses and just two glasses of wine, this felt very expensive indeed. We both had soup to start with (a Tuscan tomato soup and ribollita). They must have had vats of the stuff in the kitchen as our dishes came within a minute of the order going in! Our mains of pappardelle with ragu and wild boar with polenta were unspectacular. To be fair, the wine was good, as you would expect. The service was brusque and lacking in charm - and indeed on occasions comic - finding our coats as we were leaving had a touch of a Fawlty Towers episode about it. You can eat much better in Florence for much less so I would recommend giving this a miss.
Although the wine list was nice the service was terrible if not offensive and the food was mediocre. I'd recommend going elsewhere.
Antinori is one of Italy's top 3 wine makers. One of the very best Chianti producers, they created the class called "Super-Tuscan", making single vintage, single grape wines that are among the finest wines in the world. Their restaurant pairs beautifully simple Italian cuisine with their "house" wines. No one can offer "house" wines like these. This restaurant is the Antinori's centuries-old home in Florence. An epicurean experience is guaranteed.

I had Branzino in wine with capers and dried tomatoes. Sublime. My wife had steak Florentine, pretty good, but not comparable to steak San Francisco. Salads, grilled veggies great. Desserts - let the waiter choose for you. He nailed it for us.

We were the first to take a table at 8:15. By mid meal the place was full. Some were dining at their wine bar. Informal attire, rustic interior, but above shorts and scruffy t-shirt. The atmosphere was filled comfortably with conversational energy. Not our first meal there, and hopefully not our last. It never disappoints.

This is the very best place to eat in the whole of North London - the food is always perfect, the price very reasonable, and the service prompt and friendly. The place is always spotlessly clean and well kept. We have never had a disappointing meal, or one that is less than 100% good value. There is a pleasant family atmosphere and a relaxed cafe style feel.
I was asked to review Filini's at the Radisson Blu Hotel on behalf my parents who are thinking of having a family pre-wedding get together there the night before our big day. I'd never normally consider eating in a hotel restaurant, perhaps it's the vision of Alan Partridge having a dinner for one at the Linton Travel Tavern, but on this occasion I was prepared to make an exception for my dearest parents (and they offered to pay). The Radisson Blu is a pretty impressive modern tower just opposite the entrance to the new John Lewis and inside the decor has a sophisticated and contemporary feel.This vibe extends to the Filini dining room which is a mix of simple wood furniture, banquette seating and walls lined with coolers containing a seemingly extensive selection of wine. My criticism of the dining space would be its lack of natural light and atmosphere. On arrival for our booking at 7pm we were the only diners in the restaurant and throughout the evening only two more tables became occupied. One contained a solitary business man reading a book and the other a couple of young arty types, also on business. I can imagine this is an issue with many a hotel restaurant; pretty dead save for those dining on expenses. If only a handful more people were prepared to forgo their room service club sandwich and get sociable, the atmosphere would have been that much better.

So what was the food like? Filini is billed as a contemporary Italian restaurant and the food on offer appeared to live up to the billing. To start with, we shared a 'large' Meat and Vegetable Antipasti. At a push I would have described this plate of food as 'medium' in sized. In comparison to the Antipasto Massimo! at Carluccio's I felt it didn't cut it in terms of flavour, size or price. The dish comprised of a couple of slices each of very average chorizo and salami, some pretty good bresaola, deliciously smoky chargrilled courgette, run of the mill dressed leaves and black olives. The stand out of the dish was some intensely sweet yet acidic balsamic pickled onions. Bread, olive oil and balsamic vinegar accompanying the starter was delightfully warm and fresh. Of the 3 types on offer (we snaffled the lot), an olive bread was the pick of the bunch. Mains were a bit hit and miss. The other half's Roast Sea Bass (£17.50) with lemon and herbs was cooked to perfection. The skin was wonderfully crisp and the flesh moist and meaty. The sauce it was served had an intense and creamy taste of shellfish. Seriously moreish; if only I hadn't eaten all the bread it could have been put to better use. My rib eye steak with pizzaiola sauce however was not so top dollar. The steak was ordered rare yet was cooked to medium-well. Way off the mark by any chef's standards. The meat had a good taste to it but there was definitely an element of the chew factor which is a bit of a disappointment when paying north of the £20 mark. Rather peculiarly, my dish was also accompanied by some hot balsamic pickled onions (remember these?). I'd said they were tasty with the starter but wouldn't go so far as to say I was ready for their sequel 20 minutes later.  Other sides included black pepper and Parmesan fries which were nice but could have been a little crisper and cheesier as well as a Tomato and Cucumber salad. The salad provided some freshness to the main and was served with a lovely pesto dressing.  Onto the puds. We decided to order off the bar menu for dessert as nothing really caught our eye off the standard menu. I opted for a blackberry and apple crumble which could have served three (I think the description 'large' would have been more appropriate here than for the antipasti). The crumble topping was deliciously er....crumbly and infused beautifully with the taste of cinnamon. The contents underneath was packed full of apples and blackberries of just the right sweetness. Dani opted for a caramel and pecan cheesecake which was just a bit 'meh'. The base wasn't particularly crisp and although there was an identifiable taste of caramel and pecan, it was definitely leaning towards the bland side. So all in all a mixed bag. Service was exceptionally friendly throughout the evening, which goes a very long way indeed. Food was also excellent and mediocre in places. However, I fear the nature of the business target audience extends over into some of the rather steep prices on offer. In light of the vast array of mid-week dining out offers in Cardiff I can't really see Filini ever being packed to the rafters. Perhaps a week day set menu wouldn't go amiss? I'm undecided as to whether I'm going to recommend Filini to my parents for the pre-wedding shindig or not. I'll think I'll just let them read and make their mind up themselves.
I live nearby and come here regularly.....food is in my opinion amazing, and it is great value for the price. It's super hard to find nice italian food in London...and this is the one that I can only recommend. All waiters are genuine professionals who take their job seriously... . Overall, amazing service, good food, cozy atmosphere. I love this place to eat but it is very hidden away! It has wonderful scenery and is just off Narrow Street. Me and my partner eat here regularly and find it great value for money! The food is always excellent and the service is even better! And the place is great for a cocktail or two as they have a bar that serves nibbles! Great place to spend an evening! Excellent food and huge portions, staff very attentive and friendly. Would highly recommend. An amazing restaurant in London, i love it, they have a very good chocolate mousse. I went at the end of july and was blown away by the food.....the portions are generous and the price excellent. There was a large party of us (15) so I saw lots of different dishes, they all looked and smelled divine. There was a lot of tasting going on! I had an amazing steak, huge, it was slightly rare for what i'd ordered. The waiter took it away and they cooked me another with no fuss or attitude. I am taking my husband there for his 40th birthday and cant wait to sample more of the menu! I was taken there by a friend, and as an Italian, I was quite offended by the name, it's not funny and it's not clever. But most importantly, the food was awful! How can they call that food Italian? Italian food is about fresh quality ingredients, the food I was served tasted boring and ready-made. This must be the worst place in the Docklands, rude staff, boring food (you could almost hear the microwave bells from the kitchen) and over priced. Never again! Been there few times now & each time the waiters go out their way to accommodate me and my wife and the baby.
Definitely would recommend it to any one with your family or with out. best italian food in london in my opinion....tasty,delicious,generous,excellent friendly service....well done...i coould eat there everyday...well done boys... I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. Never again! The Kings Head, sitting atop Winchmore Hill, is a North London presence of the Geronimo group of excellent pubs, who have managed to achieve with elan the tricky task of making that new phenomenen, the gastro pub, traditional. This is no mean feat, but by carefully selecting pubs that have potential character and then tweaking them, in some cases more than a bit, they've done it.  At The Kings Head there is a large bar, a vaulted dining room of potentially gothic aspiration, added to by a covered terrace and decked beer garden. The first floor houses the air conditioned Long Room, a space ideal for gathering of up to 40 people seated, or standing for 70, and has its own bar.  Watch out for the suits of armour and thrones, all adding to the quirkiness of this splendid place, a temple indeed to to Bacchus and Ceres, or as Footloose magazine put it, "there's no stripped pine and designer suits here". Rather is there a feeling of having just dropped in to the junior common room of an Oxbridge college, where style and good company go hand in hand.  The fodder is served from two attractive menus, one each for lunch and dinner. The lunch menu moves subtly from soup and sandwiches, through toasted Cumberland sausage and fried egg sandwich to full blown 10oz rib eye steak, with tomato, mushrooms and chips, and most points between.  For instance you might feel tempted by the fish pie made with smoked haddock, salmon and saffron, or a King's hamburger with streaky bacon and cheese. Such worthy standbys as steak, kidney and mushroom pie with some root vegetables and mash, or chicken Caesar salad with parmesan and croutons does it for many, and for those in a hurry the honey roasted ham and English mustard sandwich in white bloomer is ideal. The point is whether it's three course or sandwich lunch you're after it's all there and it's good ? believe me.  Dinner takes on a slightly more formal approach with pan fried swordfish, a pork fillet with creamed petit pois, bacon and sausage mash, or some very tasty lamb rump with fondant potato, wild mushrooms and a red wine and thyme jus. Penne pasta with chilli, pancetta and parsley and tomato sauce brings a breath of Italy to proceedings and for both lunch and dinner there is always a good array of desserts on the blackboard.  On matters of drink they are fortunate to have the assistance of John Clevely, Master of Wine and father of the founder of Geronimo, who with customary skill has produced a wine list that is comprehensive, tremendous value and explores the world most effectively. There really is something there for everyone.  Do keep The Kings Head in mind when it comes to party time. They know how to do these sort of things and the setting, together with their advice, if wanted, could be just what you're looking for. London is full of gastropubs now, all with their genesis in The Eagle on Farringdon Road, but they vary considerably. Some can lay scant claim to the title, but no such label could be attached to the Lord Palmerston in Tufnell Park North London.
There's a minimum of fuss, almost to the point of bareness with few distractions from the job in hand, and that includes some very good real ale on tap. The menu is on a blackboard and it's the one thing in the place that's perhaps a touch on the fancy side, but who will complain? Answer - not us, much too hungry for that.  So in the corner of Dartmouth Park Hill and Chetwynd Road you will discover a large Victorian building - welcome to the pub that is the Lord Palmerston. The refuge has a conservatory; the 'chapel', which is a converted stable, and the main bar, all excellent venues in which to relax, grab a paper and mingle with the local dog walkers after a walk on the heath. At night make sure you get in early enough to grab a table with a group of friends and lap up the lively Tufnell Park atmosphere.  A thoroughly wholesome menu, with well-cooked food, introduces more than a touch of elegance in execution. Think battered haddock, chips, pea puree and citrus tartare; sautéed chicken, spring onion and roasted garlic, jus; oyster mushrooms with white wine and parmesan risotto or dry-aged British rib eye steak with asparagus flan and hand cut chips, accompanied by a glass of Chateau Lescalle Bordeaux Superior. Indeed it would be possible to dream that some culinary TV star of the future might be out back there deftly creating good food and his own destiny - stranger things have happened.  With welcome contributions from Youngers there is a good wine list, service is prompt to the point that one would like to bring some of our more unhurried brethren along to see what proper service does for the customer, and the atmosphere is lively but not overwhelming. Any reluctant converts to the gastropub concept will have no problems here.  The elegant first floor dining room, lit by fires at night and naturally by day, is available for meetings, dinners and private parties.   Geronimo Inns own and run 28 pubs, each of which creates a warm home away from home atmosphere, where tasty food at affordable prices is available seven days a week. For more information, do visit their Website, which also has details of all the other pubs owned by Geronimo Inns.
Named after the legendary actor Charlie Chaplin, Charlie's Ristorante Italiano on North End Road in Barnet is a comfortable neighbourhood Italian with a warm welcoming ambience that makes it perfect for a quick business lunch or enjoyable family dinner. Relax in its pleasant modern interiors - red, white and black décor, tiled floor and marble topped bar - enhanced by the numerous pictures, photographs and assorted Chaplin paraphernalia on the walls. Located right opposite Golders Green underground station, the restaurant is conveniently close to areas such as Hampstead Village, Swiss Cottage, St. John's Wood and Camden Town.
Charlie's offers a varied Italian menu with dishes made from fresh seasonal ingredients either imported from Italy or procured from local suppliers. As with the rest of the freshly prepared food, the pizza dough is made fresh every day and the pasta sauces are traditionally Italian. Starters of funghi ripeni, baked stuffed mushrooms in tomato, cheese and cream sauce, Parma ham with melon or polpette Napoli, prime minced seasoned beef meatballs cooked in a rich garlic and tomato sauce whet the appetite. Then take your pick from a variety of pizza toppings including prosciutto, topped with tomato, mozzarella and ham, Napoli, with tomato, mozzarella, olive, capers and anchovies, Americana, with tomato, mozzarella, sausage, peppers and chilli or cinque stagioni, with tomato, mozzarella, ham, mushrooms, olives, artichokes and sausage. There's also calzone, a traditional folded pizza filled with mozzarella, ham and mushrooms.
Choices of pasta include spaghetti Bolognese, linguine with squid, prawns, mussels and clams, penne arrabiatta and tagliatelle with chicken strips and mushrooms. Oven baked dishes feature cannelloni filled with ricotta cheese and spinach and topped with tomato and cheese sauce as well as melanzane alla Parmigiana, sliced aubergines in tomato sauce topped with cheese. Charlie's also offers a range of meat dishes include grilled lamb cutlets with rosemary sauce, chicken or veal Milanese with spaghetti Napoli and sirloin steak with mushrooms, onions and red wine sauce. The fish and seafood selection embraces grilled sword fish steak topped with a light lemon and virgin oil dressing, king prawns in a garlic, wine and chilli sauce and grilled salmon fillet with chopped tomatoes, herbs and lemon dressing. There's also a children's menu for under-10s offers pizza topped with cheese, tomato and sausage, penne with butter or tomato sauce and chicken nuggets with chips.
A carefully selected wine list includes house white and red starting at £11.95 per bottle and £3 per glass, while a bottle of Prosecco, the classic Italian sparkling wine can be had for under £20. The drinks list also includes birra beer, hot drinks and special coffees such as Irish and calypso as well as the expected selection of soft drinks. The restaurant can also cater for any occasion whether it's a birthday, wedding anniversary or office celebration with a variety of fixed priced party menus.
Opposite the Vue Cinema and Hollywood Bowl on Chaplin Square, Chimichanga Finchley serves a variety of Mexican dishes in a bright modern ambience. With plenty of on-site parking and easy access to Finchley High Road, the restaurant is just a 6-minute drive from the bustling shops around Tally Ho Corner.
Chimichanga's extensive à la carte caters to a variety of palates. A wide range of delicious appetisers includes crab cakes, Buffalo chicken wings and empanadas, a traditional crispy pastry filled with a choice of chicken or chorizo sausage with cheese and served with sour cream. Other choices include piri piri prawns, Cajun chicken with chilli sauce and jalapeno bullets, a dish of deep fried jalapeno peppers with cream cheese and chilli sauce. Appetisers to share include chicken nachos or taquitos, crispy flour tortilla tubes with a range of fillings including cheese and black beans, chicken, cheese and salsa and chorizo and cheese.
Light bites include a range of tortilla wraps including a classic fajita wrap with a choice of char grilled fajita steak or chicken served with peppers and onions in a tortilla with Jack cheese. Vegetarians are catered for with the delicious courgette and Portobello mushroom wraps which comes with chipotle chilli sauce and jack cheese. There?s also a number of tempting salad options such as blackened tuna salad with tuna steak coated in a special blend of Cajun spices, blacked on a hot skillet and served over a bed of mixed leaves with roasted peppers, cherry tomatoes and cucumber.
For something more filling diners could opt for a tortilla burger, made from 100 per cent fully traceable prime Scottish beef wrapped in a flour tortilla with mayonnaise and served with changa chips.
The char grill section's succulent offerings include barbecue baby back ribs served with change chips and jalapeno coleslaw; sirloin mojo rojo, a centre cut sirloin steak marinated in chilli, garlic and coriander and served with beer battered onion rings and change chips, Santa Fe chicken with rice, black beans and guacamole or flame grilled piri piri chicken.
Sumptuous Mexican specialities naturally include chimichanga, a flour tortilla fried golden brown with Jack cheese and served with your choice of filling - either chunky beef chilli con carne, BBQ pulled pork or bean chilli - sautéed onions and peppers and garnished with sour cream, chives, guacamole and tortilla croutons, as well as a variety of burritos, enchiladas and tostadas. There are also chipotle meatballs, Mexican paella, chilli de la casa and south-western crab cakes. The grande quesadilla is a baked flour tortilla sandwich with your choice of filling and drizzled with sour cream and served with Mexican rice and chipotle chilli sauce.
The lunch menu offers a choice of two or three courses while a children's menu caters to the tastes of the little ones.  Round off the satisfying meal with scrumptious dessert of giant Mexican profiterole, chocolate fudge brownie or honeycomb smash cheesecake. Alternatively, end with a speciality coffee or liqueur. Chimichanga offers a variety of wines, beers, cocktails, margheritas, sangria and soft drinks to quench the thirst.
The Osteria Spiga is a welcome addition to West Hampstead's vibrant restaurant scene. Located on Broadhurst Gardens, just a stone's throw from West Hampstead Tube Station and a short walk from the O2 Centre, this Italian restaurant offers a range of specialities for the discerning diner in a smart contemporary setting.
The Osteria's à la carte begins with small bites of wild mushrooms tossed with garlic and herbs and meat balls with scarmoza cheese in a rich tomato sauce, followed by starters of fried goat's cheese with roasted mixed peppers, spinach and aged balsamic sauce; and smoked salmon with cucumber and fennel salad, mascarpone and chives. A wood-platter of Italian cured meats and cold cuts with artichokes, sundried tomatoes and grilled smoked mozzarella is a more substantial affair.   The pasta selection offers linguine with half lobster meat, cherry tomatoes and chilli, enhanced with brandy, homemade ravioli filled with roast veal and tossed in butter and sage and pappardelle with cherry tomatoes and aubergine enriched with mozzarella.   For the main course, you could select roasted chicken breast in a mushroom and cream sauce, served with mashed potato; pan-fried calf's liver with sultanas and toasted pine kernels in Marsala wine sauce garnished with sautéed fresh spinach or Grissini crusted rack of lamb, garlic and rosemary sauce with potato gratin. A set menu is also available for lunch and dinner.   After a long walk on Hampstead Heath, just a short drive from Osteria Spiga, why not reward yourself with delicious desserts of vanilla pannacotta with mango coulis, chocolate torte with fresh strawberries or crème brûlée with Irish cream and forest fruits which will satisfy even the sweetest tooth. There's also a selection of ice creams and sorbets as well as a cheeseboard with Italian and English cheeses.   The Italian dominated wine list offers a variety of flavourful whites and fruity reds from regions such as Umbria, Abruzzo and Toscana as well as sprinkling of wines from France and Australia.
Located at the St. James end of Jermyn Street, Franco's has been serving the local community, from early morning to late night, for over 60 years. Surrounded by private clubs, lifestyle boutiques, art galleries and hotels, this restaurant has amassed a remarkable customer base who are impressed with the team's relaxed, friendly approach and attention to detail.
The interior is stylishly decorated with a 1940s theme with walls adorned with attractive modern paintings and mirrors creating a luxurious appearance that is comfortably reassuring. Part of the Hambro family portfolio, Franco's is a reliable favourite, its character evolves throughout the day from the early morning breakfast, to the charged lunches and romantic candle lit dinners in the evening; an all day operation that is perfectly tuned.
The menu has been developed by the Head Chef Paulo Parlanti and combines both traditional and modern dishes. Only the very best seasonal ingredients are often flown in from Italy to ensure that the food is not only authentic but wonderfully flavoursome.
Whether it's a strong coffee and warm croissant before work or a hearty cooked breakfast, Franco's is the perfect setting for all those that prefer an early rise. The outside tables provide an excellent opportunity to watch the world go by whilst being warmed by the heaters. The menu comprises of old favourites such as eggs Benedict, as well as Franco's complete breakfast; a combination of both cooked and continental elements. For those more formal business meetings the smaller private dining room is an ideal space if privacy is required.
The lunches attract regulars and locals alike. Those who require a speedy meal generally head to the main restaurant to be part of the buzzing atmosphere, whilst those who prefer a more leisurely affair, head downstairs to the quieter and more relaxed ambience of the mirrored room. On the à la carte starters such as pan fried scallops with mustard, pear purée and beetroot or white crab meat with tomato and avocado purée can be found along with mains of roast duck breast with braised onion and mustard fruit chutney and a vast selection of quality cuts from the grill. Alternatively the splendid set lunch, that offers a choice of 2, 3 and 4 courses, pinches less in the current climate.
For the serious shoppers who have skipped lunch or those who are in search of a decadent treat, Franco's has introduced a full Afternoon Tea Menu with scones, clotted cream and finger sandwiches. In comparison with those offered by other establishments, who shall remain nameless, it is truly a steal. As evening falls, the lights of the West End beam and attract many to the theatre menu, which is probably the best value of the day, with a collaboration of dishes from the lunch and dinner menus. By dinner Franco's has changed gear again and offers an impressive range of classic dishes with asparagus salad with poached egg and black truffle, sliced Parma ham with marinated artichoke, followed by grilled king prawns with cherry tomatoes, capers and mixed leaves.
The wine list has been expertly devised to include a selection that is understandably of 80% Italian origin. Every year Franco's hosts Europe's largest Rose Wine list featuring wines from around the world. Whatever the grape variety you prefer there will be something for you!
From intimate dinners, or lavish banquets to cocktail receptions and product launches the private dining room is exceptionally versatile and can be transformed for any occasion. The space can hold up to 60 guests seated and can also be divided for smaller functions to allow an area for pre-dinner drinks or a break out space.
As Time Out magazine explains 'Franco's succeeds...by getting dozens of small details exactly right'.Stylish contemporary interiors and a vibrant atmosphere with live music and entertainment, on selected evenings, has helped Fratello's Bar and Restaurant at the Holiday Inn Newcastle-Jesmond make its mark. Watch the world go by from its floor-to-ceiling windows while relaxing in an airy spacious setting with booth seating. Serving authentic Italian cuisine with a modern twist, this 75-cover venue is where you can head for an intimate meal for two, a lite bite during the day or enjoyable evening dinner with family and friends.     The restaurant's glass fronted kitchen offers guests a view of the chefs at work. It's à la carte menu features an extensive and varied choice of freshly prepared dishes, including wood-fired pizzas, created with the best ingredients. Starters include Italian favourites such as aubergine parmigianino, chargrilled aubergine drizzled with olive oil and baked in tomato sauce with basil and parmesan; calamari frito, fried squid with lemon mayonnaise and wilted rocket leaves, and salad of buffalo mozzarella with sun blush tomato and pesto-dressed leaves. Pizzas and pasta dishes have been given a modern slant with locally sourced ingredients like crab, salmon, scallops and prawns partnering the traditional Italian flavours of basil, plum tomatoes and parmesan.   Main course meat dishes include char grilled, matured sirloin steak from the Wallington Hall Estate in Northumberland in a cream and peppercorn sauce with chips as well as pork fillet wrapped in pancetta and served with crushed new potatoes, a tian of vegetables and a balsamic reduction. Fish lovers can enjoy sea bass served with borlotti beans, wilted spinach and pancetta lardons. An express lunch menu on weekdays offers more options.   Round off the delicious meal with a tempting selection of puddings including white chocolate and Amaretto mousse served with Beckleberry's raspberry ice cream and fresh fruit salad accompanied by cinnamon syrup and thick cream from a dairy in Durham.   Special offers include dinner for two with a bottle of wine for £29. Enjoy a fruity cocktail, glass of wine or favourite brand of beer in the relaxed terrace bar. Pre and post theatre as well as takeaway menus are available. For that party you are planning, it's possible to hire the whole restaurant and celebrate in style.
A chic Italian restaurant with an unmistakable warm and friendly charm, Ponti's Italian Kitchen is a family run establishment that opened its doors in 1963. With two locations, one on Duke Street and the other on John Princes Street in Oxford Circus, Ponti's reflects well the Italian heritage in its style.
The kitchen team pays much attention to sourcing and the cooking is kept authentic with the use of the freshest available ingredients, with a lot of produce sourced from their home town of Piacenza in Emilia Romagna. A good mix of modern and time-honoured dishes is on offer including sharing platters, fantastic salads, exciting desserts as well as the usual Italian favourites. You could pop in for an authentic Italian breakfast, afternoon tea and cakes, a late supper or just a cocktail.  A variety of vinegars, oil and pasta are also available for sale.
Ponti's Italian Kitchen presents delicious Italian food in a contemporary setting, offering diners a relaxing environment with soothing background music.
Italian Kitchen's laidback warmth offers welcome respite from the hustle and bustle of London's Theatreland and invites guests to drop in for a snack or a more sumptuous meal. Situated on New Oxford Street, its special menu is available seven days a week. With a two-course lunch or pre-theatre meal for £9.95, the restaurant's strong reputation for value for money endures.
Diners can take their pick from a wide range of country style pastas, thin crust pizzas, meat and seafood dishes for lunch or dinner. Start with antipasti of deep fried courgette sticks with aioli, razor sliced Parma ham or fresh steamed mussels in a Chardonnay and shallot cream sauce. Then move on to thyme and garlic roasted chicken with fricassee of wild mushrooms, pan fried veal medallions with asparagus tips or double loin lamb chops with creamed mash potatoes. Vegetarians are well catered for with dishes such as Fiorentina pizza, seasonal wild mushrooms risotto or rosemary and garlic roasted potatoes. Dessert of rich chocolate truffle cake, raspberry pannacotta or mascarpone cheesecake provides a fitting finish.
This stylish and charming chain of Italian restaurants has acquired a quickly growing fan base among the residents of London, some of their attraction stemming from the rather exciting partnership between renowned jockey Frankie Dettori and distinguished chef Marco Pierre White. Of course, it helps that the atmosphere is so lively and energetic and the décor has a funky-kitschy appeal that is also classy in its own way.
From the antipasti selection, you would do well to select the rich and flavourful prosciutto di Parma with figs while there are plenty of pasta options for main course. If fish is your thing, then there's the refreshing grilled tuna steak alla Mediterranea while meat lovers will not be able to deny themselves the glazed belly pork Marco Polo. From the concise dessert list, the mascarpone crème brûlée is indeed a worthy choice and wines from the predominantly Italian list complement the meal beautifully.
Filippo's is a family run Italian restaurant in the heart of Horsham with plenty of Sicilian influences in the menu. Their location right next to the Piries Place multi-storey car park and other shopping destinations makes it the ideal spot to head out for a tasty lunch with family or colleagues. Enjoy the delicious fare in their spacious and relaxing first floor dining area and when the weather takes a kindly turn, there's plenty of seating outside on the patio.

Look out for dishes such as fried fillet of sardine with fresh lemon or fried calamari on a bed of salad amongst the starters and then move on to dishes such as pollo carrettera of chicken with sun-dried tomatoes, green olives, sweet red pepper pesto and cream sauce served with fettuccine pasta finally ending with a sweet puff pastry layered with custard cream. They make their own dough to create authentic, hand stretched pizzas, baking them directly onto a stone oven without a tray. Their selection of Italian wines and beers is excellent.Frankie and Benny's combine classic American and Italian in both style and cuisine. They specialise in home style cooking 'just like Mamma used to make it'. This is a great place to take the entire family and represents excellent value for money. The restaurant and bar is suitable for any occasion, whether it's a leisurely lunch, a family meal or a fantastic evening with friends - they make sure you have a wonderful time.
Walking into the restaurant is like stepping back into 1950s New York, from the clatter and chatter of the open kitchen to the bottle lined bar. Walls with black and white family photographs showing life in Brooklyn's 'Little Italy' surround cosy booth seating and tables. Combined with the classic music of the fifties, a mix of American swing and beat, they definitely provide a fun and friendly atmosphere for all to enjoy.
Frankie and Benny's offers starters, main courses and delicious desserts, and favourites include char-grilled burgers, pizzas, pastas, steaks and house specialities such as chicken parmigiana, BBQ ribs, lamb shank and much more. The bar serves a wide range of beers, wines, spirits, cocktails and soft drinks.
Start with sticky wings, crispy coated chicken strips, tiger prawn skewer or Frankie's fried calamari and if you are dining in a group choose the giant sampler platter. The pastas, calzone and pizzas are all made freshly on order. An interesting dish on the menu is a the Boston 7 speciality pizza fully loaded with slices of pork meatballs, spicy pepperoni, ham, crispy bacon, chicken, peppers and red onion, served on a BBQ sauce base. They also serve a variety of sandwiches and burgers throughout the day.
A good value lunch menu is available on weekdays from 11am until 5pm offering a range of popular dishes from the main carte with one course at £5.95, two courses at £7.25 and three courses at £8.45.
For children up to the age of eleven, an all-inclusive menu features a selection of main courses, desserts and drinks starting at £3.95. As an added treat, they'll also receive an activity pack to entertain them whilst you eat.
Enjoy an American Italian meal at Frankie and Benny's with freshly prepared food and warm hospitality that makes you feel right at home.
A family-run restaurant with a comfortable setting and friendly service, Stefano's Ristorante Italiano is located on Romilly Crescent in Cardiff's bustling Pontcanna district. It also offers guests the option of dining al fresco on a heated patio.
A traditional Italian menu begins with starters of seared king scallops on a bed of sweet potato, garnished with crispy Parma ham and duck pâté with a hint of pistachio, served with orange and onion relish and toasted focaccia. Choices of pasta include tortelloni spinaci, handmade pasta parcels filled with spinach and ricotta cheese and drizzled with sage butter. Alternatively you could choose risotto capesante, a traditional dish of arborio rice with fresh scallops, sliced king prawns, white wine and roast garlic. Follow with substantial main course options of rack of lamb served with a mint and rosemary jus on a bed of creamed potato or wild Scottish venison in a red wine, onion and thyme sauce served on polenta mash with seasonal vegetables. Dessert of homemade tiramisu, mixed berry cheesecake or hazelnut chocolate profiterole will satisfy diners with a sweet tooth.   For something more elaborate, Stafano's also offers a tasting menu with a range of dishes for at least two diners. Italian cuisine as we know it today has evolved from years of social and political change and goes back thousands of years, with milestones like the first celebrity chef of the fourteenth century Maestro Marino de Como thrown in for good measure. The cuisine has evolved with the inclusion of potatoes, tomatoes, bell pepper and maize.
You are received warmly at the Da Remo and invited to sample the rich heritage of Italian cuisine. There is the all time favourite macaroni, which Garibaldi believed would unite his country. The humble pasta has surpassed expectations and is now quite close to conquering the world. Creatively combined with beef, poultry and vegetables, the chef crafts an array of temptations to lure you.
The penne al pesto with its pesto, tomato and cream sauces that bring out the flavour is a hot favourite, while the involtini di salmone, prawns in Marie rose sauce wrapped in smoked salmon can also be had as a primi piatti, Italian for starters. You'll find the pasta fresh and al dente, deliciously creamy and healthy as a result of the Parmigiano and olive oil used.
Fresh fish takes a special place in the menu and is available in many types of preparations from the delicately plain grilled Dover sole to the sogliola alla principessa-fillets of lemon sole wrapped with baby spinach in a cream and brandy sauce-these are served with crisp chips and vegetables.
The wine list here is impressive and has lightweight Alto Adige Chardonnay to a classic heavier Barolo, whilst it also includes Chianti, Vino Nobile di Montepulciano to Frascati and some classical French wine.
Finish your meal in style by selecting a dessert from the trolley, go for ice cream or settle for a hot beverage. Getting a table here can sometimes be a challenge, so we suggest you make a reservation.
Eliano's is a well-kept local brasserie hidden away on a side street in the centre of Middlesbrough, serving home cooked Italian food with Sardinian and French inflections. The cosy rustic interior is dotted with portraits of famous chefs with timbered walls and beams that add to the old-fashioned charm. Hearth baked pizzas and homemade pastas join house specialities and regional discoveries on the menu, with tasty desserts and a well-chosen wine list to lift your spirits.
Beautiful food, relaxed atmosphere and service was perfect.
Friendly service. Fantastic Food. Great wine list. Good atmosphere. What more could I ask for. This Italian restaurant was very lovely experience. Took clams for antipasti - they were great. Pasta with anchovies for main - just delicious. My partner took seabass and it was really great. Pannettone as a desert was very interesting and good aswell. Quite good wine selection. Service was aslo nice. They also sell their own oliveoil that tasted heavenly. Only problem is that you have to book quite early - for us a week. Portions were not very big also, but thats not a problem for me. I've been to Zucca before and LOVED it, about a year ago.  I went on Wednesday and it was TERRIBLE. Ask 3 times for water. Request a main to be adapted for vegetarian (as they had NONE on the menu). 'Veggie' dish came with meat in it. SIGH. No apology from waitress, just offer of ravioli in tomato sauce, which was fine, but to exactly what you go for.   By the time it came to dessert, it was a 20min wait to order, though it came quickly, and then another 20min wait order an espresso.  Such a shame as in my past visit was what dining is all about. I'm saddened to report the staff have turned surly and the food, average.
You must book in advance to go to this tiny hidden away gem of a restuarant in London. Everything is so fresh! The menu changes so you dont get bored.
There are rumours that they may get a Michelin star. Well, it would be fully deserved.  Original recipes made with extremely fresh ingredients for deliciously tasting dishes. The menu tends to be relatively small, but it changes often. For the quality of the food, the prices are surprisingly low: most startes are around £5 and pasta dishes around £10.  Really good services as well and huge selection of Italian wines.  Unfortunately, it's almost impossible to walk in and find a table. Book in advance!
Italian's serving and cooking, with really good food, keenly priced, and lovely crisp white linen. It's always busy, so book ahead. Crappy waiting staff spoilt the excellent food and wine.
Dined two days in a row at this restaurant late February. The food was excellent at an affordable price. Much better than the average Italian restaurant. Service was great as well.
Had a nice lunch here on a Saturday. It was not too busy and staff were nicely attentive. Food overall was very very good especially our pasta mains. Desserts were also a hit. They offer a very good value lunch menu which my wife availed of. We would happily return.
We went as a family group to this wonderful restaurant, having been unable to book at Jamie Oliver's place up the road. The staff were attentive and helpful the food was delicious and the wine delightful. It is so handy for St Martin's Theatre and Leicester Square Station. My daughters paid the bill as the whole trip was a birthday...
Superb Italian food in the heart of Leicester Square that will set you back about £60 for two including the odd glass of wine. They also do a metre long "metro" pizza that was popular with people dining in groups.
Nice Italian restaurant. Good mussels. Although fritto misto and streak were a bit disappointing. Prices are reasonable.
The food is very fresh and well prepared, and is truly Italian. The restaurant, however, could add a few more waiters, as service is slow and you need a lot of hand-waving to get attention. We also got the wrong appetizer, which was duly replaced. My son had recently visited this restaurant & raved about the £9.95 two course menu. My wife & I visited at about 5:45 one evening - I'd booked but didn't really need to bother although it got very busy whilst we were there. I had the two course menu & chose the marinated grilled vegetables then the Margharita pizza, my wife had the Marinara pizza from the a la carte menu. The veggies were scrumptious, the two pizzas were authentic Italian pizzas although we would have preferred them a bit crisper. The marinara wasas it should be with no cheese and my Margharita was also as it should be with not too much cheese. I finished with a first class espresso.   Definitely one to revisit. Staff were friendly & efficient & we certainly weren't made to feel rushed. We stumbled upon this restaurant while in London for the Theatre, It was buzzing by 12.30 but we were lucky to get a table to experience their two course lunch menu at only £9.95. The Service was friendly, relaxed and efficient. The food was generous, Hot (luke warm food is my pet hate) and most of all delicious. Will make sure to book a table in advance whenever we go to London. We found this on trip advisor as we were staying in London when we arrived you wait at the door for services. We were then taken to a table and given 40 minutes to order eat our food and drink our drinks, being watched all the time pressure to finish, if the services was as good as the food it would of been great.
Giovannis is really nice restaurant with warm and welcoming atmosphere.  We had an excellent dinner there with our group, appetizers were good, but the main course was really the peak. We really enjoyed our main menu.  Everything went perfect, waiting times are OK and the service is nice.  Design and decoration of the restaurant is nothing special, but the warm service adds up.  We will go back definitely again. Thanks for the service, we’ll be seeing. My husband and I went to Giovanni's last night to eat post Theatre and it was to say the least a perfect end to a perfect night. The staff made us feel like we were having a dinner party at home and all we had to do was sit and enjoy. The food was amazing and served with a smile and Pino was the most amazing happy ,fun, and charming manager we have seen in a long time. I have been to Rules for special occassions BUT I have now suggested to my husband that I want to go back to Pino and his amazing Italian haven as often as possible . Thank you Pino for a fantastic night and many more. Have eaten here on and off for over 20 years. My favorite Italian restaurant in London. Food excellent, atmosphere great, staff very friendly. Took some Australians there recently ~"The most enjoyable meal we've had in Europe" Ate here on a whim last week and enjoyed our meal. Staff were friendly and knew their stuff, service good, fairly quick which was good as we were blooming starving!   Food tasty, if a small bit pricy. I am bit odd and found the hottest thing on the menu not hot at all! I think our server was bit perplexed as asked kitchen for super spicy and I didn't think it was, but like I said I am bit odd :-) I can't rate it very good, as didn't leave think wow that's the best Mexican I have ever tasted, but it was pleasant.  Had a Mojito which wasn't the best, but good effort, however should really have been fab even the cost. To sum up, nice atmosphere, staff helpful food reasonable standard. Would come again.
loved my short visit here. Great food and excellent service.. recommended.So worth a visit, amazing food, brilliant service and lush cocktails. This restaurant has become mine and my better halfs favourite restaurant. We have been here several times and its always been the same. Great food, great service and a the ambience has always been buzzy and friendly. The sharing platter and the fillet streak are fantastic! Seriously, the people here are really cool and will do their best to accomodate you without a reservation. They'll be seeing us alot more! I am EXTREMELY picky when it comes to Mexican food, having spent years in California, and most of what's being passed off as Mexican food in the UK (well, the whole of Europe) is absolutely insulting and largely disgusting.   Cantina Laredo is the exception to this rule... and serves perhaps the best Mexican food I've ever had outside of North America! The chipotle salsa was perfectly flavoured; the soft carnitas tacos were garnished just as they should be. Fantastic attention to detail. Friendly, not overly pretentious service. I consider this place to be my new 'find' in central London... Highly recommended for those desperate for authentic, traditional Mexican food!   I do find the name of this restaurant slightly amusing: Laredo itself is a very rough and dangerous border town, more associated with gang violence and poverty than with upscale Covent Garden eateries... I realise a name change wouldn't be practical, but have the owners ever been to Mexico? Surely if they had, they would have chosen another name. We dined here on a busy Saturday night in February, and we were very disappointed.  The food was served luke warm, and although we both had chosen one of their specialities ( marked in red on the menu) we both found the food to be bland.Plus the portions were far too small.  Sorry but we will give this one a miss in the future. Great atomsphere here, our waitress made our guacamole at the table - how cool. My husband and I are vegetarians so there was a seperate menu for us and was delicious. The Margarita's were just right. Very busy restaurant so we had a little wait at the bar for a table, probably about 20 mins. We love Mexican food and this is a great place to get it. Both times we have been, once for dinner and once for lunch have been good. A little more theatrical in the evening, but lunch was good too. Food is varied and tasty and non-alcoholic cocktails good although could do with more drink and less ice. The don't overdo the peppers which is great as we love mexican food but hate peppers! Hopefully back soon for another visit. We headed in for a late Sunday lunch with a pushchair and optimism that it's occupant would sleep. She, however, had other ideas. Fortunately for us, the welcome and attention we received at Meze Mengal was superb: pushchair was accommodated, high chair offered, juice magically appeared and the food was spectacular.  The Meze is second to none and we'd thoroughly recommend it. We feel very lucky to have this restaurant in our local vicinity. Only downside is that the grill smells pretty strong so the smell can linger on your clothes, but it's worth it for the flavour of the food. This is an ideal place for a gathering of family or friends. There's something for everyone on the menu & the prices & service are great.  Staff make everyone feel welcome and they bend over backwards to accommodate. One of the best child friendly places to eat in South East London. We have been coming here since it first opened around 2000.  Clearly the best in south London Cannot go wrong with the lahmacun mixed mezze with liver and Hellim and top off with that speciality Adana.  Very fortunate to have such a restaurant locally. A fantastic & very reasonably priced restaurant that I am so happy to live close to although it is worth a trip across town for. The staff are always so friendly and attentive despite it always being busy. The meze is fantastic, a selection of cold starters and a hot starter of your choice although be prepared to take your main course home in a box for later as you are bound to be full before it arrives. The bread and pides are delicious and freshly made in the restaurant and the meat dishes are of a very high standard. I'd recommend it to anyone but suggest you book to save disappointment. I chose the restaurant based on other reviews. It is truly an excellent place with authentic Turkish meals and sizeable portions. It is not cheap but with the portion size it is a fair value. You also see the food cooked on the mangal for you and I also appreciated the service, which was not obtrusive but at the same time considerate.  I enjoyed the meal and would definitely come back again. The only disadvantage perhaps is that the restaurant is located quite far from any station and Lewisham is probably not the best area in London to take a stroll late in the evening. Usually when you see a small Turkish restaurant on a busy A road in South East London, you'd be forgiven for thinking it was just a ten-a-penny kebab shop, but Meze Mangal is about as far as you can get from that. The service is excellent and the food even better. Well worth a small (well, OK, fairly big) detour to visit. We got a warm welcome from Eva and although the restuarant was empty when we arrived it was nicley busy by 8-8:30. My wife and I could have picked several of the starters and mains so there was a good selection on the menu. The smoked duck starter was delicious and my steak was superb with perfect chips. They didn't skimp on the portions so unfortunately we didn't manage desserts. We had a bottle of Cremant de Loire pink sparkling wine and I had a glass of Rioja which was very good. All for about £100 which I thought was a very fair price. We really enjoyed our meal. food is good and the restaurant is a very nice place! the staff is extremely kind and polite. Big thank you for another great evening!!! Steve and Eva with their wonderful team provide the best food and service ever!! We will see you next week! ave eaten at Whits several times over the past couple of years. The latest was a quick starter of lobster and crab ravioli and steak. Both cooked to perfection (the rare steak is just the best). This was accompanied by a bottle of house red which was very palletable. As the previous reviewer has said, it advertises itself as french however much of the menu are british classics as well. Thanks once again team. I have been dining at Whits for the last few years and I felt it was time to put pen to paper to write a well deserved review!  Starting with the host, totally friendly and professional. I myself was trained in food service and this is one of the few restaurants that I have been to that serves using the correct conventions.  Food- what can I say but always excellent. On my last visit I had a rib eye steak which was succulent and juicy with the most wonderful chips. Previous to this I had the pig! Wow! Is was also amazing and probably one of my favourites. If I had to recommend a dish it would be the lobster ravioli!  It is rare that you meet hosts that are passionate about their work and is very much shows here. Looking forward to my next visit early March!  Thanks. We were in London again and after reading the reviews on Tripadvisor, we decided to visit this restaurant on our last night and make it the hight of our culinary holiday. The place is so and so. The area downstairs is nice but the area upstairs were we dined looked drab. My wife ordered the goats cheese mousse which was over-powering. I had the terrine of goose liver which was ok, but nothing special. For mains we both had the char grilled scottish rib-eye which was tough and not tender. Also the presentation was too amateurish ( see photo ). More like a steak from a cheap pub or diner. For desserts we had the cappucino creme brulee which again wasnt really special. What really amazed us is the speed at which we were served all our 3 courses + coffees........in 1 hour flat we were out of the restaurant. When we visited, Whits was 14 on trip advisor. There are far more better places in London. This restaurant is advertised as French on tripadvisor and its very misleading. We ate here on Valentines night. It was a set menu so was limited to four options per course, however this still offered a lot of variety and I could easily have chosen several of the options for each course. The food was quite simply stunning. I had scallops to start which were cooked perfectly, I have never had better. My partner had lobster ravioli which I tried and it was delicious. For main I had fillet steak which again was cooked perfectly and was lifted to anotther lovel by the addition of goose liver. My partner has Sea Bass which was again cooked perfectly and tasted fantastic. We both has desert and while these were not as good as the first two courses they were still very good and inventive. My partners desert came with turkish delight ice cream which was very unusual and very nice. I will definitely go back to sample to full menu. my wife and i enjoyed an excellent Valentines dinner. the special menu was prepared with a good range of choices and the wine list was well priced and comprehensive. the welcome you receive is warm and friendly and this runs throughout the evening with attentive service. i went with scallops to start - cooked to perfection and bursting with flavour - followed by rack of lamb - again cooked just right. there was a good range of deserts on offer with very hearty portions. all dishes were presented extremely well and did not disappoint. definately recommended. Enjoyed an excellent meal last Saturday. The menu and wine list are first class, yet not over bearing at the same time either. Service and hosting was superb. One very minor element I feel they could work on slightly is the ambiance of the place - maybe light music? In addition the toilets are slightly lacking - but that shouldn't detract from the quality of both service and food!! We reviewed Whits on TripAdvisor before visiting London as we were looking for somewhere special to enjoy our 10th wedding anniversary with friends. We had travelled down to London for a weekend break. Please believe all the good reviews you read. It really does live up to your expectations. Firstly, Eva is a wonderful host, she made us feel special from the moment we walked into the restaurant. The menu is to die for, it took us ages to choose from the menu. It is not a vast menu but everything just sounded so mouthwateringly delicious - and we were not wrong! As a Celiac (cannot tolerate Gluten) I have to be careful in restaurants I don't know with regards to eating the wrong foods. Eva, again, was wonderful - she knew the menu back to front and exactly what I could and couldn't eat. In the end I chose Pea and Ham soup for starter and it was the best soup I have ever had with large chunks of ham. My husband opted for the lobster and crab ravioli and has said it is the best starter he had ever eaten and we have eaten in a number of restaurants. One of our friends had the assiette of lemon which included the best souffle she had ever tasted!! It was an amazing evening. The clientele are lovely too we sat next to two regulars (Alan and Chris) who were very entertaining. The only draw back of Whits - it is 220 miles away from us and we can't go again this weekend. The value for money is also amazing - four x 3 course meals, bottle of champagne, two bottles of wine, copious amount of lager and port and it cost us ca. £300. Will we go again? YOU BET!!!! We went on a Saturday night and it was very busy. The place had a nice vibe, and belied the slightly run down area this gastro pub is located in, with a lovely warm and welcoming interior. The staff were very friendly and the service was prompt and courteous. The food was good (better than average - Trip Advisor you need a 'good' rating option!) but not even the best Gastro style grub we have had. The starter of salmon / prawn scotch egg was great, and my main of lamb rump was Ok but not the most tender cut of meat I've ever had. My partner enjoyed her fish dish, but the milk jam ice cream and praline dessert was a little underwhelming (and contains peanut so I ended up eating this given my partner's allergy - some reference on the menu would be helpful here). Worth a visit for a warm welcome and some tasy food. Recently booked this restaurant given the closeness to Waterloo and the great reviews. What a fantastic place. The reviews that I read followed the usual pattern of several great and the odd bad one and so you know the chances are, you probably aren't going to be dissappointed. The one area that really stands out for this place is the service. I had two calls to confirm the booking as I'd got the numbers wrong and they even provided cushions for the seats as my wife has a bad back. It was the little things that they got particularly right. For instance when the next track on the music they were playing was a bit louder than the previous track, the volume was lowered before anyone had the chance to complain. The food was also excellent in particular the cauliflower soup, fishy scotch egg, the lamb dish and the burger. Even the mayo on the side looked homemade. The reviewer who had these dishes and didn't like them must have just been unlucky. The puds were also imaginative and delicious. 3 courses, aperatifs, wine and coffees for 4 people and all under £50 a head in town was great. Given the price of the other restaurants in the top 20 on this web site, this one definitely scores on value for money. Will definitely be back. Visited this restaurant for Family celebration on Sat 25th Feb ,having gone out of our way taking a train ride and two tubes because we had read amazing reviews about it.Big ,big mistake!!! The food just wasn't good.My son and I had Lamb and it was tough and chewy,really awful.My husband had a burger and It was very undercooked. The deserts were only o.k. , nothing to write home about at all. The staff were very friendly and helpful and the service was very good too,when I brought it to their attention that we weren't happy with our food they dealt exceptionally well with it,however it ruined our night that we felt we had to complain and put a big dampner on our special evening. 
Was a bit nervous after reading reviews on here but my daughter had been twice and was impressed both times. Eight in our party all had full three courses and everybody was happy with the presentation and quality of the food. Staff were very attentive, explaining in detail the ingredients of dishes, it was really busy but this added to the ambiance of the venue, will be back.
Visited jamies on Sunday evening after booking online.arrived before our friends but waitress tried to show us to our table.we said we would rather wait at the bar,so we were just left there,no showing us there,or giving us menus to look at while we waited,we had to go back and ask if we could look at them.
Our order was taken by a very over enthusiastic waiter,who just didn't seem to want to go away!.
Starters VERY small,I had the mushroom fritters which seemed to be one large mushroom sliced into 6 and the tinniest pot of garlic dip.
The mains were much better .the penne arriabatta was fantastic and everyone else enjoyed theirs too.
We just had cappuccinos to finish,but the cups they arrive in are ridiculously small with the strangest handles which makes them quite awkward to hold
All in all the place had a fantastic atmosphere but I think Jamie needs to come and address a few of the points I have mentioned.
When you go out for a special occasion,and expect it to be spot on,because of the name,little niggley things shouldn't happen .whereas it was a lovely evening,it could have been made more special by more attention to the little details.they are after all what make a great meal into a fantastic one that you want to tell everyone about!
My first time in Venice and we spent most our time eating, drinking and walking. This restaurant was by far the best food and service. We tried to tasting menu which finished with a plate of 5 deserts and it was stunning food all the way through. Very highly recommended and in my opinion worthy of a michelin star. In fact its better than the michelin star restaurant we dined at the following night.
Ad Hoc, Superb food and excellent service. We had the roman taster menu which was great value for money and gave us a great opportunity to try an array of dishes that we wouldn't normally order. Fantastico!
When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes.
BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers.
I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience.
Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one.
Have been here half a dozen times now over the past two years and it's always been up and down. After the last visit, however, I will not be going back. Mushroom bruschetta was literally mushrooms on toast - no herbs, no chopped onion, not even any seasoning. My pizza base was thick and undercooked and absolutely slathered in tomato paste. The ham topping looked like reformed ham slices that you buy in the fridge at Tesco and were only lukewarm. My largely untouched plate was collected with absolutely no comment. The food of my fellow diners was a little better, but presentation was mediocre and everything looked like it had just been thrown onto the plates with little care or thought. Disappointing.
We have eaten at Quattros for many years now and we have always eaten very well. The service is courteous and efficient. The choice of food is extensive and the quality excellent. The fillet steak is especially good and is served with one of three very different and very good sauces. Easily the best restaurant within the Lancaster area.
Not the first time I have visited Pietruccio's and how the times have changed for them. I don't often write reviews but after reading so many which extol their culinary and dining virtues and excellence, I have to disagree quite strongly. Apart from their food being extremely overpriced, pretentiously so in fact (for an Italian restaurant, I mean it's not as if we're short of choice in that department) the waiting staff were rude to me and the party of friends with whom I was dining, so rude in fact that one particular waitress was bordering on argumentative and quite publicly so. I have never been so embarrassed in all of my dining experiences. Had we have been a group of yobs, their responses may well have been justified but then, they price such clientel out of their market, the only plus point on their pricing structure, I feel. There was no menu, which I was surprised at and food just kept arriving every twenty minutes or so without choice or warning though when we expected the pre-requested coffee course (it took over ten minutes from the end of dessert for us to lose patience and put a discreet hand in the air) coffee never arrived. When questioned about this, the waitress again became very abrupt. I am incensed that patrons paying through the nose for what THEY want us to eat and in very small portions it must be said, can be treated in such a poor, rude and dismissive manner. Food was above average but not spectacular and not on par with previous visits, portions very small and certainly NOT worth their exorbitant price-tag. I shall never return to this restaurant ever again and forewarn others likewise and my friends and family feel the same. Overall, a teeth-pulling, embarrassing and awful night which cost a small fortune for the privilege.
I have been to Pietruccio's a few times now and every single time I have visited I have been blown away with the quality of food and value for money, not to mention the very friendly staff and chef Pino himself. The 'Gourmet Menu' in which the previous Review from Peter refers to is an absolute must if you are thinking of paying Pietruccio's a visit. I would recommend this to anyone who loves quality ingredients, isn't afraid to try something new and likes the excitement of not knowing what is coming next. It consists of 7 different courses and in my opinion each a very substantial amount. I have had the Gourmet Menu 3 times now and had completely different courses each time (apart from Pino's amazing Hazelnut ice cream which is to die for) and everytime I have came out planning my next visit! If you are someone who really appreciates TRUE Italian food (and not the chains who think huge bowls of pasta and fried breaded mozzarela sticks constitues a good Italian meal) which uses fresh local ingredients then this is definitely the place to be and I guarantee you will keep going back.
La Collina has long been a favourite on MK Reviews and a group of us paid the family run restaurant a visit on a Saturday evening. When you arrive, you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is a restaurant as it is hidden towards the back, situated in a large conservatory.
We sat on the comfortable sofas near the bar and chatted away while we made our selections from the extensive menu. After placing our orders the waiting staff returned shortly afterwards, took our glasses and carried them through to the restaurant for us.
I started with a relatively simple yet tasty dish - Mozzarella Impanata which is Mozzarella in breadcrumbs with a homemade sweet chilli dip. This was very tasty and not too heavy - a pleasant way to start.
All the other guests had opted for the Freshly Baked Ciabatta Bread & Marinated Olives, with an extra virgin olive oil & balsamic vinegar dip. The olives were incredibly popular!
My partner predictably ordered her favourite pasta dish for her main course – the Fresh Egg Tagliatelle con Rucola - with olives, sundried tomatoes, spring onions, & capers finished with olive oil, rocket, parmesan shavings & toasted pine nuts. This choice of pasta has everything! This is a colourful dish that has an abundance of flavours that combine brilliantly. Not only is this a healthy meal, it is incredibly light and amazingly fresh.
My choice was the Agnello Arrosto. Roast rack of lamb, served pink with Italian beans & pancetta stew on a rosemary potato rosti. For those who enjoy their meat dishes, this is a real treat. The lamb is perfectly cooked and sits proudly on a large, tasty and well seasoned rosti. The Italian beans and pancetta stew prove the perfect accompaniment. I loved the way the lamb was prepared and couldn’t get enough of the rosti. Delicious!
One of the guests opted for a fish dish – the Filletto di Salmone. Pan seared fillet of salmon served with crispy marinated vegetables, crushed new potatoes & a fresh herb dressing. This main course of fish will make you go “wow” when it is served to your table. A very pretty and well presented main course, the salmon is delicious with a dash of the herb dressing. The crushed new potatoes are to die for. You will immediately taste the freshness in every mouthful and whilst the powerful flavours of the salmon are allowed to shine through, the marinated vegetables and potatoes prove the perfect side-kick and they work together as one.
The popular Pizza Della Casa was our other guest’s choice. Tomato pizza topped with parma ham, rocket & parmesan shavings. This is an amazing looking pizza from La Collina that really gets the taste buds flowing. La Collina serve some of the best pizzas you can have, and the Della Casa is no exception. They have recently received a Gold Star Award for the quality and use of fresh and authentic Italian ingredients in their pizzas. They are reasonably priced too.
The restaurant has a cosy feel to it – the red vertical blinds give it a feeling of warmth. There is plenty of room between diners and we found the staff to be efficient but not intrusive.
When a group of you are dining there can be nothing worse than one of the guests be slightly disappointed with their dish – especially if you are so taken by your own choice. Here at La Collina though, we all sat there simply delighted with our choices and the quality of our food. This somewhat inevitably, means you enjoy the occasion all the more. We ordered some more wine and whilst some of us struggled to find room for dessert, I could not resist the choice of Amaretto & Cantucci Biscotti Cheese Cake. This is one of the most popular desserts from La Collina. It is incredibly light with a delightfully crispy biscuit base. It was so good in fact, that I was not in the mood to share!
There are very few independent Italian restaurants in the area so if you’re in the mood for pasta or pizza, or indeed an authentic Italian dish – then La Collina is right up there on the ‘must try’ list. We loved it!
It worries me sometimes when I mention Sapori to friends and they seem unsure where this wonderfully authentic Italian restaurant is situated. So before I share an amazing dining experience with you, it’s worth pointing out that Sapori is on your left just as you approach Woburn on the Leighton Road.
We have visited this restaurant a few times before, including on a Valentines night, and whilst this is certainly a great venue for intimate dining, it is also ideal for any occasion, whether it be for a birthday celebration or a business meeting where you might be keen to impress your clients.
We had booked our table a week earlier and every day my partner and I would say to each other - “Sapori on Saturday!” in eager anticipation of returning to this cute little venue. As we took our seats, it was reassuring to the see the waiting team led by the same young lady who had first served us almost two years ago when we visited Sapori for the first time. With ambient lighting, soft music in the background, and an incredibly enticing menu before us, we readied ourselves for what would hopefully prove the perfect dining experience.
We started with a glass of Prosecco before ordering a bottle of Vernaccia di San Gimignano D.O.C. (£25). Varieties of Vernaccia are rapidly becoming a favourite wine of ours. Renowned for being fresh and crisp, this particular wine was no exception. Easy drinking, it accompanied our meal perfectly. At Sapori you will almost certainly not struggle to find an abundance of quality wines on the menu. My partner started with the Gamberoni aglio timo e Pinot Grigio £8.50. Shelled king prawns sauteed with fresh thyme, and simmered in a Pinot Grigio sauce with a touch of garlic. This is a mouth-watering dish. Simply presented with five large juicy King Prawns circling a plate, this dish is made all the more exceptional because of the amazing sauce. The prawns were exquisite – incredibly succulent and perfectly seasoned.
I started with a ‘Special’ of Calamari, served with a garlic and butter sauce and a salad garnish. This was a classic dish that arrived with slices of lemon on the side. Calamari can sometimes be tough – but these had an incredibly light batter, were cooked just right and tasted sublime once drizzled with lemon.
Another special of Agnello (£16.95) caught my eye on the ‘Specials’ board. When we looked around the restaurant it appeared many people were doing the same because this main course of lamb cutlets on a bed of mash with a rosemary and garlic sauce was incredibly popular.  This looked wonderful on the plate, and tasted amazing. The sauces in Sapori are out of this world and they make very good dishes brilliant ones. The rosemary and garlic sauce was delicious, but in no way did it overpower the dish. The array of subtle flavours was Italian cuisine at its very best.
The lamb was served pink, and I enjoyed every mouthful. There was a lot of meat and because I enjoyed it so much, I paid little attention to the vegetables at first. But once I did turn my attention to some of the carrots, I was amazed at their freshness and how they were perfectly cooked – still full of flavour; they possessed a gorgeous texture that needs to be tasted to be believed. How do they do it I wondered? What was becoming very evident about the food at Sapori was how even the simplest of ingredients like carrots were cooked so very well.
My partner also opted for a ‘Special’ – the ‘Vitello’ - veal, with sautéed potatoes, with a garlic, rosemary and black pepper sauce. The veal was tender with a melt-in-the-mouth texture that was complimented by slices of San Daniele Ham (a superior version of Parma ham). Yet again, the sauce was amazing.
We moved quickly onto our choice of desserts and somehow, things just got better! My choice of Torta Alformaggio – toffee and vanilla cheesecake was definitely a sweet to die for!  This cheesecake was deep, with an amazingly light texture, drizzled with just the right amount of delicious toffee sauce. I wish I had not asked my partner to try some because despite loving her own dessert, she helped herself to a few more mouthfuls of my cheesecake than I expected her to – much to my displeasure!!
Her choice of Coppa Difrutta (a fruit cup in English) was a very pretty dish. Delicate and full of fresh strawberries and raspberries, it proved totally refreshing.
The staff at Sapori are incredibly on the ball when it comes to talking about the food they are serving. Not once did any question we ask receive a delayed response (you know what I mean – when the waiter replies, “Er, this is er, yes, er, actually, let me go and check with the Chef.”) Their knowledge of food, where it is sourced and how it is prepared was quite impressive.
In conclusion, it is somewhat hard to pick holes in the food. Every aspect of our dining experience was memorable for all the right reasons from start to finish and Sapori is a must try for anyone who adores authentic Italian cuisine.
If you have seen adverts in the local press for The George Inn, there’s a good chance your first instinct will be that this is a “pub somewhere near Woburn.” If you pay a visit and eat in their restaurant, you’ll soon realise that this is no ordinary pub. Nor you will probably feel like you are in a pub at all once sat in their cosy restaurant which offers a taste of Italy. This is quite a unique dining experience, with the option to have a drink at the front of the house next to a pool table, or make your way to the back where you will find a delightful and inviting conservatory. Welcome to The George Inn, one of the few independent Italian restaurants in Milton Keynes.
My guest and I decided to have a drink in the bar area first and make our menu choices here rather than wait to be seated. This allowed us to have a relaxing drink and take our seats when our food was almost ready. All menus are freshly prepared at The George, so be willing to wait for your food to be cooked.
Food
I started with the Oven baked field mushrooms, stilton, parma ham and toasted pinenuts (£4.95). This dish is full of flavour, incredibly fresh and all the ingredients combine to perfection to create an immensely tasty dish. The stilton has a real kick to it. My guest looked on enviously at this well presented starter but I was not in the mood for sharing.
There could not have been a greater contrast between this starter and that of my guest’s who plumped for the Scallops baked in shell, with lemon grass, chilli and smoked bacon (£6.95). This was not the sexiest dish in the world to look at and whilst the scallops had a lovely texture, more of everything was required to bring this starter to life.
For mains I opted for Porcini Ravioli (V) with garlic mushroom dressing (£11.95). My guest opted for the Tiger Prawns Linguini, cherry tomatoes, French beans chilli, garlic and parsley butter (£12.95).
My ravioli was simply out of this world. Incredibly tasty for a dish of this type, the pasta was fresh and melted in the mouth and the dressing was to die for. With plenty of Portobello mushrooms, this was a first class dish that really did offer that taste of Italy. I would put this down as a “must have” for anyone who likes Italian food.
My guest’s Linguini was also very well received. With plenty of generously sized prawns that were very meaty in texture, crunchy beans and tomatoes that popped when bitten into, this colourful dish offered everything. Another outstanding course that we would happily recommend.
My guest opted for the selection of cheese and biscuits (£5.95) to finish and our only criticism here was that we did not know what cheeses would arrive. I opted for the Chocolate Bomb, chocolate ice cream and chocolate sauce centre with real Belgian chocolate coating (£4.95). As a self-confessed chocoholic this dessert was never likely to disappoint and this was a more than enjoyable conclusion to my meal.
Décor
The George is a traditional looking pub with a small bar at the main entrance and various seating available for those just wanting a quick drink or a snack. The restaurant is situated in a large conservatory to the back with approximately fifty covers. There is a massive contrast from the pub side to the conservatory which looks and feels like a restaurant. With the blinds pulled half way, there is an almost homely feel about the place.
Atmosphere
Visiting anywhere on a Monday is probably not the best time to judge the atmosphere of any location but this is definitely a “friendly” place with welcoming locals and is the place to go and relax and simply enjoy good company.  
Service
You could not fault the service that came with a genuine and glowing smile. The team at The George know their food and what they are serving. Prompt and attentive, with impeccable timing if you needed anything, we left a tip on top of the normal service charge because we had enjoyed our meal so much.
Ok so firstly our table was at the window, not a big deal as no one can see it but we were literally on top of the couple beside us.
Garlic bread was a real let down, very doughy and our local take away does a better job. I think there also was a ration on the garlic too!
I had rice while OH had pasta, his was just “ok” but not as nice as mine apparently although chips were really nice.
My rice was eatable, but not that warm and not really up to the standard of a restaurant when I can make better risotto at home and I am not a chef!
Older couple beside us had pizza, eat most of it but said it wasn’t up to the usual standard, waitress took plates away and I could see her saying to the other girl in charge (couple could not see) see just laugh and rolled her eyes - great customer care.
Girl in charge lifted plates, noticed I had ate a quarter of mine and asked was it ok, I explained nothing really wrong with it to complain about but nothing right either. She just hmmm and walked away. Cheeky brat.
£35 in total and we went to McD’s on way home. Says it all.
Would I be back, nope, would I recommend, nope.
My partner and i arrived for lunch at 12 noon on monday 11 july 2011 fantastic two course meal deal on at present great service and my partner and i are still talking about the quality and presention of the entire meal and look forward to our return the pork belly a favourite of mine has to be one of the best i have ever eaten so well done to all .
Had a good meal in here during the week.
Penne al Forno was my choice of meal. Mince meat, pasta and cheese. Very good, similar to lasagna. There was plenty of mince meat which was good to see. Had bread to start too, which was also enjoyable. Few different variations of bread.
Place was cosy and clean. Staff were dead on, maybe could have done with a bit more interaction, not much chat out of them. Although saying that I don’t like places that needlessly ask you if everything is ok with your meal when you have your mouth full, so am glad they didn’t do that :-)
Two meals and a shared bread starter came to just under £25 I think.
I found myself in Birmingham – the land of pleasant taxi drivers, balti houses and a growing culinary scene – not so long ago. I was up there for an Arcade Fire gig (there were only seated tickets left at the 02 and I’d rather snog Brian Blessed than sit down to Arcade Fire) but of course we wanted to make the most of some Brummy hospitality before the big show. My first thoughts went to Glynn Purnell‘s new place The Asquith – his French neighbourhood restaurant in Edgbaston which has already wowed the local critics, but we were arriving at an odd time and needed to be at the venue by just-gone seven, so anything on the fine dining spectrum wasn’t really an option.
Instead we opted for the new Jamie’s Italian at the Bullring in the city centre. I’d still never eaten in any of Jamie Oliver‘s restaurants and was interested to see for myself how the most recent outpost of his Italian casual dining chain (which was a convenient five minute cab ride from our Ramada Encore hotel) would fare. This is a man whose 30 Minute Meals cookbook recently became the fastest-selling non-fiction book of all time, and there’s no doubting the power, influence and affluence of the guy, but what of his restaurants?
His latest addition certainly doesn’t scrimp on the visuals. Part of the city’s massive shopping hub complex, it’s got a vast, impressive industrial chic interior – all gleaming metal pipes, wooden floors and exposed light bulbs – and the whole space dominated by a huge, striking chandelier. There’s faded tan leather banquettes, a long open kitchen at the back with the chefs in full view, and a mezzanine level with rather posh Thomas Crapper facilities.
As soon as we arrived we greeted by the front of house team, who seemed to have already bedded-in pretty well, and shown to our table by our waiter, “Patrick”. I’m still not sure how I feel about having the first name of your waiter drilled into you (am I supposed to introduce myself too?), but for the record, Patrick was fabulous. After bringing us the obligatory glass of Prosecco, we ordered a seasonal ‘plank’ of Italian charcuterie to start with (anything that merges construction lexicon and pig products is fine by me.)
Shortly afterwards he followed with said plank – strewn with hams, salami, cheese, olives and all sorts of rustic goodies. Stand-outs were the fennel salami, pistachio mortadella and soft, melty San Daniele prosciutto. Seasonal pickled veg added a piquant twist and huge, juicy olives were devoured in seconds. At £6.95 each, it was an absolute steal and the best part of the meal.
For our main courses we’d both gone for pasta, with the philosophy that any restaurant group building its whole brand around Italian cooking had to be serving some properly unbeatable pasta dishes. I’m sorry to say that we were wrong. Before I get into this, I just want to make it clear that I’m not a part of the Jamie-bashing massive. I’ve liked the chef since he first appeared on our screens as a hyper-active, scooter-riding, market trader bothering young thing back in the late 90s, and I think that he actually deserves commending, rather than criticising for the culinary do-gooding he’s done in recent years.
But our pasta dishes didn’t sing as I’d hoped they would. I ordered rabbit ragu parpadelle (£11.35), the ragu of which came sans tomato – letting the lovely flavour of the slow-braised wild rabbit shine through. On the flipside though, it was rather dry, and could have done with a bit more mascarpone/olive oil to lubricate it. But it was the parpadelle that was the real problem. I was expecting smooth sheets of buttery pasta, but instead got a strangely frilly variant (below), which, when mixed with the too-dry ragu, made for a claggy mouth-feel.
My chum had gone for the cockle linguine (below) – which is made simply with chilli and garlic. The problem with dishes like that is that they have to be really, really excellent to avoid just being a bowl of boiled pasta with a smattering of cockles. Sadly this was the latter. It wasn’t unpleasant – according to my friend – rather it lacked flavour and sparkle and again, seemed rather sticky and heavy.  The cockles were fresh, juicy, and nicely-cooked, she said, but the rest of the dish didn’t demand to be savoured. Which it should,  for £13.35.
It’s not that either of our main courses were particularly nasty. It’s more that they were underwhelming and lacked the deliciousness you’d expect from a pasta dish in a great Italian restaurant. That said, considering that this is Italian food aimed at the masses, the menu isn’t run-of-the-mill. Scallop and squid ink angel hair (£13.90) sounded lovely, as did Buffalo ricotta ravioli (£10.55), and most of it, while not hugely cheap, seems fairly priced. The carafe of buttery, unoaked organic Chardonnay that we enjoyed was a joy, as was the service throughout the meal.
Jamie’s Italian is a good thing for Birmingham. It’s a stylish, spacious restaurant with efficient, friendly service and decent Italian food – the perfect place to drop in for a quick, tasty lunch with a bunch of mates if you’re in town, or indeed on your way to a gig. But celebrity-chef endorsed or not, it’s a fast-paced, big operation, and if it’s magical, authentic Italian food you’re after, I’d suss out something smaller and Italian-run.
I really enjoyed my dinner at this restaurant and would recommend it to anyone visiting Sorrento (except for people on extremely tight budgets). I visited for dinner at 8.00 pm and had the choice of a set menu or ordering a la carte. I chose the EUR 30 set vegetarian menu. Here is what I was served (remember, all this for EUR 30!):
1. Homemade bread with olives or almonds, and prosecco to drink
2. "Artfully arranged" julienned vegetables in a delicate sweet-and-sour sauce
3. Insalata caprese (tomatoes, mozzarella and basil)
4. Ricotta ravioli (probably in a sundried tomato oil)
5. Local, tagliatelle-like pasta in broccoli sauce
6. Grilled vegetables
7. Cake made from regional lemons (from a selection)
8. Lemon profiteroles
Add a glass of white wine and water, and my total bill came to EUR 40. They seemed quite keen on giving out little extras (not all of the things above were actually listed on the menu), so be nice to them! The menu clearly stated that the cost of the menu included cover charge AND service, so I didn't leave a tip. The food was all excellent; it tasted very fresh and homemade, and used local ingredients as much as possible. Service was warm, cheery and friendly... they were very kind to me despite my knowing nothing about eating in fancy restaurants! My only complaint would be the timing, in that there was practically no time for digestion between courses but it took more than forty minutes for my bill to arrive after I asked for it. I saw some children there at lunchtime, so I think they are used to catering to diverse crowds. There is indoor and outdoor seating, the inside is mazelike while the terrace is more like a garden.
The restaurant's website shows their menus (both set and a la carte), and also features some recipes invented in their kitchens (in Italian only).
L'antica trattoria is located on a side street in central Sorrento. It seats 40 people in an arbor and 45 more inside. Though it advertises a 'no smoking' policy, smoking was permitted -- and ashtrays provided -- in the outdoor area.
Reservations are recommended. When we arrived our name was printed on a 'Reserved' card on a table in a prime part of the arbor. Later in the evening people arriving without reservations were turned away. 
My husband and I visited Tempo for our first anniversary and were absolutely won over! After a memorable honeymoon in Italy we were keen to relive some of the culinary experiences we'd had and from looking at the menu decided to try this restaurant.
Situated in the heart of Mayfair you can expect to part with a fair amount of cash for the evening but I can honestly say that this isn't expensive so much as real value for money and worth every penny! The atmosphere is buzzy but warm and attracts courting couples, familes and business people alike. The waiting staff are dressed traditionally against the backdrop of contemporary and tasteful decor, and you are made to feel welcome from the minute you step in door.
The menu is fairly traditional but the ingredients and produce are top quality. The wild boar ragu pasta dish was sublime and we shared a veal dish that was melt-in-the-mouth delicious. They have a fantastic selection of Italian wines from which we selected a sensibly priced Barbera D'Alba - the staff are happy to advise according to your dishes and taste so you don't feel pressured in to pretending to be a wine connoiseur! 
We'd had such a beautiful evening and were so impressed with the food that we asked our waitress to pay our compliments to the chef - who then came out to speak to us for 10 minutes! He was a young man from Naples who was so modest and friendly, we'd been to Naples as part of our Italy trip so had lots to talk about! Overall the warm service, fantastic food and value for money makes Tempo stand out as a real gem in London's most expensive area. Can't wait to go back!
Perhaps I am at fault for having such high expectations but I came out thinking that whilst it was nice, I would not be returning. The food was was of a good standard. Particularly notable was the pheasant and mushrooms main course. The wine list does have some more interesting wines from Sicily and Sardinia, but the wine we chose Cattaretto/Viognier was distinctly average. The boar pasta I had looked forward to and it was very nice. The staff were Ok but a bit too polished (the classic presumption of mineral water "still or sparkling" and the mock incredulity/surprise when we declined pudding) but these are minor gripes. I am not sure what the competition is around this part of Mayfair but main thoughts on leaving were: that was a nice meal and what great food they serve at Jamie's Italian.
Went there for a work's do recently. We were seated upstairs. I heard it was crowded up there but what I saw was ridiculous - 32 people in 3 separate groups were herded in to a tiny room about the size of my living room and kitchen!
The service was OK but the food was terrible. I have had much better Italian food just around the corner from BB's. Was disappointed after hearing good reports about it.
Will not be going again!
I have been to BB's many times before but this was the first visit in a while. I was reminded of what I had been missing.
The food and service was excellent, and you can take your own wine if you wish (although the restaurant does serve alcohol).
The atmosphere was a little on the loud side, but this is to be expected on a Saturday night. The overall experience was excellent.
I had fillet steak (Filetto Al Pepe) and it was the best steak I've had for as long as I can remember.
I heard very good reviews of the resturant but this is not my opinion. I went there some time ago the majority of the food was fine but I was served a pizzza that I could have used as an olympic discus. It was obvious that I did not enjoy the pizza because only one slice was partially consumed. I was not asked if I enjoyed the meal and I vowed I would never take my wife or family there again.
In my opinion this restaurant is what Italians think the english want from an italian restaurant, they must be right the place is always full. Quality ingredients, good atmosphere, excellent knowledgeable staff.
Lively atmosphere, you would think as it was extremely busy that you would hzve to wait for your food, not so. Excellent service. I made the mistake of ordering Scampi with the risotto,.. it came still in the shell! But it yummy. Would recommend to all. Menu to suit all pockets too.
A big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store.
Pros
Lots of attentive waiting staff
Good range of classic and modern Italian cuisine
A great bar where you can watch the world go by
Cons
Too big for romance
This much service and style comes at a (big) price
Manchester Italian restaurant that welcomes a stylish crowd
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.
Well, it only took us a month to try Prezzo again and we were better served. It seems only fair to cancel out my last negative review with a positive! This time we went on a Friday night (previously it was a Saturday lunchtime and it was quiet), we sat upstairs this time and there were more experienced staff on shift. All 6 of us had a 3 course meal with 2 bottles of wine and it was well worth us trying again.
Avanti restaurant in Exmouth. What a disaster we booked a table for myself and husband . On arrival the waitress who was like a hyperactive looked puzzled neurotict and sat us at a table that wasnt even set up so no point in booking. We ordered prawns which werent seasoned and I had fried mozarella with a tasteless tomato sauce which I seasoned myself with lemon salt and pepper. For the main course my husband orderd mussels with GARLIC AND CREAM and I ordered the vegetarian canelloni with sinach and ricotta. The bread for the Mussels came out BEFORE the stater. The mussels had NO CREAM OR GARLIC there was just some white wine at the bottom. MY canelloni was absolutely appalling. The ricotta had curdled and slpit and look like a bowl of SICK with 2 pices of pasta swimming in what was the most disgusting sauce I have ever tasted, I had no salad with it and no spinach inside, but the bowl of mussels came with a piece of lettuce, why bother, you dont serve salad with mussels! but it would have been nice with the pasta. We complianed abouth the mussels and the waitress and owner Donato came over and he started telling the waitress of at our table and it wasnt the chefs fault and he would have put cream if he had known. What a lousy excuse and unprofessional. The other waiter young lad was a slimy creep and when removed our starters asked us "was it niiiice?" like some lurch from the Adams family. We hardly had time to swallow our starters and the mains arrived no time to sit and relax like the Italian way, all rush rush. Lurch removed my main course platewhich was still full as I didn't eat it and didnt even ask if if it "was niice" Overall SERVICE WAS SH*T- FOOD WAS SH*T - PRESENTATION WAS SH*T-. HE is an insult to Italian and even more insulting to British people for fobbing us of that that is authentic Italian food . Donato should be ashamed of himself and the awful reputation he is going to get. Get yourself a PROFESSIONAL CHEF and decent waiting staff or you wont be in business very long.
Recently opened + owned by Donato,my wife and I had high hopes for a lovely evening meal, sadly the whole experience could not be further from the truth. Despite booking + speaking to Donato, on arrival it was clear that we had not been booked in.A table was positioned at the back of the restaurant for us and it was clear that couples are not the best customers prefering the large groups. Donato took the order with no offer of specials, my wife asking for a smaller portion but this was refused. A shared starter came out wrong with 45 mins for cheese and cold meats to be served. Overpriced and only a token effort on presentation. Left for 30 mins with dirty plates on the table and were only removed when we got up to pay the bill,no thank you or goodbye on departure from any staff least of all Donato. Exmouth resident for 15 yrs we will not visit again and there are better places to and spend money on in Exmouth.Not recommended
Having moved from London to Exmouth recently, we were really excited to see a chain restaurant investing in Exmouth and couldn't wait to try it. It looks good, in a great position but we were so disappointed. Firstly the waiter didn't hear us properly or understand us when ordering our glasses of wine, bringing the wrong size glass. We mentioned this and he brought us another - but we didn't want too much to drinkl. The portion sizes of the children's meals are odd - 5 tiny chicken wings or a huge pizza. It would be nice to see some garlic bread, pasta or vegetables with the chicken.We had to ask them to put the chicken on the fire again as they were served under cooked. The adult dishes were very average, although they are trying to introduce special menus by chefs displayed on the tables. It will be a long time before we try Prezzo again.
This is the only Prezzo I've been to, and I've been about five times - with friends, familiy, husband. Disappointed on two of the visits - tables for two are far too close together, near the window in the lower section. No privacy. Pizza had a funny taste to the dough - almond taste. Topping was overdone. The rest of the times I've been, service has been really good and the pasta dishes have been excellent. I often go with a voucher and enjoy the starters as well. Nice atmosphere, but particularly if you can reserve a seat in the raised area/area to the right of the entrance.
THE best-laid plans and all that. We were heading up to Crookes by car for a pizza when we got caught in the recent flash floods and ended up parking in Sheffield city centre and seeking out somewhere nearby.
My other half used to go to BB's Italian restaurant on office dos with his former workmates and enjoyed himself, so we thought we'd try our luck.
Leaving our dripping umbrella with a rapidly-growing group of its friends at the door, we inquired after a table for two and were in luck.
The very friendly woman who was front of house wasn't checking her list as an affectation – it was only early evening and the place was already buzzing.
BB's, which must be the narrowest restaurant in Sheffield, is affectionately known as the Tardis by some regulars. It goes back a long way and packs in a surprising amount of tables without being claustrophobic. Upstairs there's room for larger parties to gather.
The place is decorated like many an Italian restaurant here and in the mother country – rough Artexed walls are covered in pictures of home, old travel and film posters, caricatures and a big cartoon of the Italian football team. Further evidence of BB's love for the football team – the only beer on sale is called Forza Azzurri and the staff's smart black polo shirts boast their 2006 World Cup win in gold lettering.
This is a place that attracts a mixture of families, students and the aforementioned office groups or parties of friends celebrating birthdays. They also get pre-theatre and City Hall audiences.
The restaurant has been run by the Frusciante family for about 10 years. Wife Jill is front of house and husband Antonio is in the kitchen and two of their daughters work as waitresses. The third now has her own place in Burton on Trent.
Jill told me that the family have been involved in running a long list of Italian restaurants since 1980, including La Taverna on Birley Lane, the Flying Pizza on Glossop Road, San Lorenzo on Sharrowvale Road and Pizza Torino on West Street.
The prices look a bit steep at first – lots of starters are around the 6 mark and the main courses can go up to about 14-16.
However, a bit of astute menu-searching can find some bargains: you could share a starter as portions are generous and order a pizza or pasta dish and cut the main course bill in half that way.
Also, you can bring your own wine and, if a group asks in advance, the restaurant is more than happy to provide a set menu for 15.
There is a good wine list and, as Andy was driving, I tried a large glass of house red Montepulciano at 2.95, which was fine. He had a bottle of beer at 2.50.
After our friendly and knowledgeable waitress Carla had confidently gone through descriptions of the blackboard specials, I ordered the risotto (6.50), followed by tuna (14.50).
Andy stuck to the menu and had cheese garlic bread (5) followed by a Napoli pizza (6.95), which has his favourite anchovies on.
There's plenty of choice with a large menu plus three starters and three mains on the specials board.
The deal was to split the starters and our waitress, realising this, thoughtfully brought us two side plates.
The risotto was a fantastic red colour, made with a red pepper sauce and red pepper pesto, and came decorated with black olives, tomato slices and rocket.
It was as good as any I've eaten, perfectly cooked and full of flavour. It also went very well with the lovely, fresh-based pizza-style bread.
When a waiter offered us some black pepper my heart sank in anticipation of him grinningly wielding one of those giant phallic pepper grinders. But BB's has gone for something far more modern, one of those battery-operated affairs.
The attention to detail is impressive, especially on such a busy night. We didn't have to prompt for any part of our order and when I dropped a fork a replacement was at hand in seconds.
Our main courses continued the good impression.
Andy's pizza was very tasty and the base was as fresh as the garlic bread had been. They must have a proper pizza oven somewhere. I never saw where the kitchen was.
My tuna had been well cooked in olive oil and was smothered in a good tomato sauce dotted with capers and black olives. It came with a side dish of sauteed potatoes with rosemary, garden peas and carrots. They looked like they had been kept hot under a fierce heat but tasted fine.
After a bit of a rest we couldn't resist the puddings, once we'd worked out what c/c referred to on the desserts blackboard – cheesecake.
We were offered one of those terrible menu cards with pre-made desserts on but ordered homemade tiramisu for me and triple chocolate cheesecake for Andy. I also had a very good espresso.
The tiramisu was fine but there was a lot of it and for me it could have done with a good shot of booze in it to lift it. The cheesecake was fabulous but incredibly rich and it defeated Andy. He finished his lovely vanilla ice cream that came on the side, though.
Our bill came to 48.95 including drinks and coffee.
Verdict: Well worth stepping inside this Tardis.
You can never go wrong with a trip to Capri if you just want a simple, quick tea out with friends or family. Towards the end of the week it does get busier, mainly due to the offers that they have on. We usually go with a set meny, 3-course, which costs around £8.50, so you can't really go wrong!
Paperino’s West End brings classic Italian cuisine to neighbourhood setting
Paperino’s, the Sauchiehall Street restaurant which revolutionised Glasgow’s approach to Italian food, is proud to announce the opening of its new branch, Paperino’s West End, on Byres Road.
The new restaurant, which emphasises traditional Italian cuisine in a relaxed, neighbourhood setting, combines the extensive range of pasta, pizza and meat and fish dishes found in the original restaurant, with a new takeaway service along with early morning coffee and pastries. In addition, a new specially created children’s menu will be available throughout opening hours.
Paperino’s West End marks a return home for owners Stefano and Sandro Giovanazzi. The brothers were born and raised in the West End, and Stefano said the new restaurant was intended to be a focal point for the vibrant community which lives in the area.
When the brothers opened the original Paperino’s in 1991, the combination of classic food in a relaxed environment was new to Glasgow, and the now-classic look of whitewashed walls and terracotta floor redefined the way the city’s restaurants were designed. The new restaurant returns to that timeless design with subtle changes to suit the larger space.
Entry to the main restaurant is through large brasserie-style doors from Byres Road. The restaurant, although spacious, falls naturally into several distinct areas, ensuring diners always feel they are in an intimate and relaxed environment. Entering the restaurant, there is an area of round tables near the street, perfectly suited for relaxed lunchtime eating while taking in the street scene. A staircase leads to a mezzanine floor dining area, surrounded by an elegant glass balustrade, which will also be available for private functions for up to 40 diners.
In the main restaurant, a long bar down one side provides a focal point for the restaurant’s signature cellar of elegant but reasonably priced Italian wines. This part of the restaurant consists primarily of booth seating, with a side area occupied by a long bench and loose tables and chairs.
A third dining area also features flexible table seating, with large windows overlooking the picturesque cottages in the neighbourhood.
A feature of the interior are two specially commissioned murals. Painted by Glasgow artist Nichol Wheatley in the style of the early 20th century painters Albers and Delaunay, they reflect Stefano’s keen interest in abstract art.
The brothers were determined to make their new restaurant as attractive and welcoming to families as it was to other diners. As well as the new children’s menu, which offers a choice of main and dessert, along with a drink, for £4.80, the restaurant includes a separate room for baby changing, with custom built benches, a wash-basin and a comfortable chair. The room opens on to a large, lockable vestibule, meaning a parent with more than one child will be able to secure the entire area, leaving them free to attend to the baby without worrying about the other child.
The restaurant features a separate takeaway area opening on to Byres Road, which will be open from 8am until 10pm. In the mornings it will provide coffee and croissants and pastries, while from 11am it will offer light lunches such as pannini and baguettes. From midday it will offer the restaurant’s full a la carte menu as takeaway, at a 25 per cent discount on sit-in prices.
A free home delivery service will be offered.
Stefano says that despite the innovations the new restaurant introduces, it will maintain the traditions which have made the original Paperino’s a Glasgow favourite. “I have a great love of all food and wine, but I believe we should stick to doing what we know best, and that is preparing traditional Italian food,” he says.
There is a current of opinion among some of our staff that we should re-name our restaurant The Swan – on the grounds that while we’re perfectly calm on the surface, we’re paddling furiously underneath.
Like any successful restaurant, Paperino’s West End prides itself not only on creating a great night out for our growing portfolio of customers, but also making it seem absolutely effortless.
There is, after all, no reason why our diners should know, or concern themselves about, the complexity of the operation which puts a delicious meal in front of them at their command – but the fact is that it is something of an organisational miracle.
We have 185 covers at Paperino’s West End, our newest venture in the buzzing heart of Glasgow’s cosmopolitan student quarter. On a typical Saturday night, each table will have three sittings between the start of the evening, around 6pm, and last orders at 10.45pm.
That’s more than 500 customers and, if each diner has a couple of courses, that’s more than 1000 plated meals coming out of our kitchens – not to mention the constant flow of drinks from the bar. Add to this that, at Paperino’s, we have made a very public pledge that all our food will be cooked freshly, from first principles. All our pizzas are started from scratch, all our meat is cooked from raw and, apart from a base tomato sauce, no sauces are prepared in advance. As they say, don’t try this at home.
So how is the Saturday Night Miracle achieved? Well, a great part of the burden falls on the shoulders of the restaurant managers, who orchestrate the chaos and turn it into a mellifluous symphony. They must be simultaneously aware of, and be ready to deal, with a vast number of details, from the cleanliness of the cutlery to the market price of fish.
In the short space of time between the daytime menu finishing at 5pm and the evening menu starting an hour later, they must organize and motivate the staff, make sure the necessary prep work has been done and be ready to make sure that everyone is satisfied and smiling.
They also have to be diplomats, like Angelo Maresca, maitre’d of the Savoy Grill, who - faced with two customers he knew were arch enemies wanting the same table – placed a bucket on it, told them there was a leak and ushered them to other tables.
Since we opened in May we have built a considerable repeat business, with regular customers requesting particular tables, and these requests have to be factored in to party bookings or sudden rushes of business caused by seasonal factors.
In the kitchen, our 11 chefs are marshaled like a well-drilled military unit under head chef who decides each day what tasks are to be undertaken and delegates these to the chefs de partie, sous chefs, kitchen assistants and kitchen porters.
He is responsible for making sure that food is of the right quality and price – and is produced at the right time – planning menus, ordering food and budget control. He also has to keep records, know the law and how to apply it to food hygiene and employment.
Much of the prep work will have been done as the day business tails off around 4pm to 5pm, but as the Saturday night customers start to flood in the pace quickens dramatically.
One thing the kitchen has learned is that there is no room for Gordon Ramsay-style prima donnas or tears and tantrums. Instead, teamwork is of the essence and everybody does their job with skill, speed and efficiency – all underpinned by a comprehensive and continuing training regime and support not only from their bosses but from their colleagues.
Because this is what makes the Saturday Night Miracle work: the satisfaction that the team gets from looking out over the noise, colour and bubbling laughter of 185 diners engaged in convivial conversations over a meal that they’re really enjoying; the relief and exhaustion when the last tables are cleared; and a comradely drink before setting off for a bit of partying of their own.
And what makes it really special for them is the knowledge that they can do it all again next weekend, and the weekend after that. That’s what makes them professionals.
It may seem “unpretentious”, but this family-run Putney Italian can
be quite a “memorable” destination; the “enormous” wine list is a 
major plus, but the “rustic” cooking is “bursting with flavour” too,
and service “really goes the extra mile”
Regulars say they’re “always treated well” at this “well-established” venue near Putney Bridge, a “treasure that bats far above its weight” with “inventive”, “fantastic” Italian cooking and a “staggering wine list”.  “It’s a bit out of the way unless you live/work in the area”, but it’s “worth a hike to get there” – “generally quite full” so be sure to book.
Went to the argyle street restaurant for the 1st time ever for a special occassion & was delighted with everything from start to finish! The staff made you feel comfortable right away & ensured you were looked after the whole time you are there, we even got a special menu to celebrate our occassion. The food was simply fantastic, all beautifully presented & very well cooked - would highly recommend & will be going back again...soon!
Food was reasonable good selection, I would say it is a little cramped and not much of an atmosphere but maybe we just caught it at a busy time!! try the steak n cheese baguette with chips yummy!
Di Maggios offer excellent selection at reasonable prices would highly recommend something from there pizza list and there is a lot to choose from.
We use this restaurant on a fairly regular basis and the standard of service is consistently very high.
Not only have they softened the room but they've also added a separate street entrance which helps in establishing the restaurant's identity, despite the best efforts of the intrusively anodyne music. Veneto born Chef Michele Granziera, a Zafferano alumnus, has created a menu that traverses Italy and marries the rustic with the more refined. There are dishes designed for sharing as well as pre-starter 'snacks' if you really can't wait. The homemade pastas are a particular highlight, while the kitchen's creativity is given full rein on the 'Surprise' seven course menu which is available at dinner.
For a time, I also wrote restaurant reviews, as my travels around Italy do require eating out often. I have stopped because I rarely go to the same place twice, and reviews do have to be confirmed from year to year. But I have decided to leave the reviews I did up, because they will at least provide hints of places to go. This page has reviews and restaurant suggestions for Florence & vicinity.

La Cantinetta Antinori (Florence, Piazza Antinori)
Dai Ricchi (Cercina, near Florence)
L'Enoteca Fuori Porta (Florence, Porta San Niccolo)
L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi (Florence, San Frediano)
More restaurant suggestions, from Cosa Bolle in Pentola.

Not going to Florence?
Restaurants in the rest of Tuscany.
Restaurants in other parts of Italy.
 Haven't found anything you can use? Ask Me, or post your questions on the BBS -- if I can't answer them someone else will probably be able to.

Back to the main index

La Cantinetta Antinori
 Palazzo Antinori 3 Tel. (055) 292-234, closed Saturdays & Sundays (you'll want to make reservations in the summer).

 In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

 I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

 For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

 The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Back to restaurant list

Dai Ricchi
 Florence, Via Della Docciola 14. Tel: 055/402024 Closed Tuesdays.

 Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

 Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

 Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

Back to restaurant list

L'Enoteca Fuori Porta
 Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

 It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

 Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

Back to restaurant list

L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi
 Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

 In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

 Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

 The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Back to restaurant list
More
 Restaurant suggestions,
 from Cosa Bolle In Pentola

Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.

 She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:
1 Enoteca Pinchiorri (traditional and innovative cuisine, perfectly prepared, with an incredible wine cellar) 055 242777; closed Sun-Mon-Tue lunch
2 La Tenda Rossa, in Cerbaia (ten miles outside Florence, near San Casciano) 055 826132 (4 star, innovative); closed Wed-Thurs.
3 Cibreo (traditional Florentine recipes in a modern key), with a cheaper first-come-first-served room round back 055 2341100; closed Sun-Mon
4 Don Chisciotte (especially fish) 055 475430; closed Sun-Mon
5 Oliviero (innovative presentation of traditional dishes) 055 212421; closed Sun
6 Il Salotto del Chianti (in Mercatale, about ten miles out of town)
7 Il Delfino, in Artimino (ten miles from Florence) 055 8718074; Closed Mon Tue
8 Dulcamara, in Sesto Fiorentino (about 5 miles, within city bus range) 055 425 5021; closed Mon
9 Taverna del Bronzino 055 495220; Closed Sun
10 Caffe' Concerto (gets a star of academic merit and 3 normal stars from Panorama) 055 677377; closed Sun
11 Le Murate (Panorama guide says it's romantic); closed 055 240618 Mon lunch

Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

 Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

 And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.
 "Contact: Leo Porzio, Adria 2 Hotel, Via Montebello, 49, Florence 50123, Italy; phone: 011-39-55-212-086; fax: 011-39-55-215-029; e-mail: adria2@dada.it."

 And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

 Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

 He replies:

"Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"

Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
 "Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
 "The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
 "Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
 "Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."

My girlfriend and I are sneaking away for a weekend and need a suggestion for a romantic Italian restaurant. We'll be staying downtown so any recommendations in the area would be great!



 Thanks for your arti 
Thanks for your article on the traveling industry. I will also like to include that if you are one senior thinking about traveling, it really is absolutely important to buy traveling insurance for elderly people. When traveling, golden-agers are at greatest risk of getting a medical emergency. Obtaining the right insurance policies package for the age group can protect your health and provide you with peace of mind. mattson plaque cuisson 



 Italian restaurant recommendations? Review 

Italian cuisine has evolved through centuries of social and political changes, with roots as far back as the 4th century BCE. Significant changes occurred with the discovery of the New World with the introduction of items such as potatoes, tomatoes, bell peppers and maize, now central to the cuisine but not introduced in quantity until the 18th century. Ingredients and dishes vary by region. Many dishes that were once regional, however, have proliferated with variations throughout the country. Cheese and wine are a major part of the cuisine, with many variations and Denominazione di origine controllata laws. Coffee, specifically espresso, has become important in Italian cuisine. Italian cuisine has evolved over the centuries. Although the country known as Italy did not unite until the 19th century, the cuisine can claim traceable roots as far back as the 4th century BCE. Through the centuries, neighboring regions, conquerors, high-profile chefs, political upheaval and the discovery of the New World have influenced one of the premiere cuisines in the world.

I am a student of  Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4     ccna     and i am so much specialties in the network solution's.



 Italian restaurant recommendations? Review 

 Awesome post! Interesting info to know.


 Re: Italian restaurant recommendations? 

Cafe Zucero in Little Italy has great Italian pastries. Skip dessert at whatever restaurant you eat at and grab a cannoli or something from there.


 Re: Italian restaurant recommendations? 

Some of the restaurants in Little Italy can get pretty packed so make reservations. We didn’t, thinking we’d be able to get in pretty easily, and ended up heading to a place next door that served pizza by the slice.  It was pretty good but not the romantic evening I was hoping for since it was an anniversary vacation. Don’t make the same mistake and your wife will be happy. 



 Re: Italian restaurant recommendations? 

Go to Little Italy!! 

My family loves Italian so we've checked out a few of the restaurants and they're all great! They have different entrees and price ranges so you can choose whatever suits you best. And the atmosphere of the whole area is quaint and pretty romantic so as long as you don't grab a slice to go, you'll be in for a lovely evening :)

Dean's Tuscany Restaurant List

Dean Gold (Dean)
Star Ratings

* means that if you are there, it is a place to go
 ** means that if you are nearby, go out of your way to try it
 *** means plan your day or your trip so you can go there

Why are there no zero * places? Because life it too short to drink mediocre wine and to eat at mediocre places.

The restaurants are roughly grouped by area in Tuscany from south then going north to Florence (Firenze).

Lastly a word of philosophy. When we find some place fun and with good food, we like to return. The owners and waitstaff love it and they really make a fuss over you on even a second visit. This is when they will make recommendations or give you little tastes etc. There are a number of places we have been to over and over again (Il Pestello, Bar Orso, Cibreo Trattoria, Il Tufo Allegro).
Maremma (Southern Tuscany)
Montemerano

**Passaparola
 Vicolo delle Mura 21, tel: 0564-602835
 Located in an old oil mill. We have a lovely meal with incredible acquacotta and a great bottle of Eric Banti Ciabata. Very warm and aromatic, a bit funky but with a nice spice. Great buy for under 20. Kay had bruschetta dripping with house made olive oil, gnudi di ricotta (ravioli without the noodle) and fagioli. In addition to my soup, I had crostini di pate di olive and an incredibly aromatic coniglio flavored with orange. We had ciccoria and fagioli to accompany. 

Our second meal there was even better than the first. Kay forced herself to eat a couple of truffle dishes. I had a bean and arugula bruschetta, a delicious zuppa di funghi and wild boar in sauce. Kay had tagliatelle con ragu danatra e tartufi bianchi followed by faroana (guinea hen) with truffles. I had fagiolini and Kay tomatoes and onions as our vegetables. We drank Poggio Valente from Le Pupile, a superb Morellino that was awarded 3 bicchiere by Gambero Rosso. When I asked the waiter what to drink, his answer is that you expect Safreddi to be good (this is Le Pupiles very famous "super Tuscan" Morellino) but for a wine for 35. (and at that he made a circle with his thumb and forefinger and extending his three remaining fingers made the gesture of drawing his had under his nose and inhaling that means incredible in Italian). It was. Dinner for 2 with a good bottle of wine around 80 to 100.
Pitigliano

***Il Tufo Allegro
 Vicolo della Costituzione, 5, tel: 0564/616192
 What a find. Pitigliano is an ancient city carved out of the Tufo on a huge outcrop. It is surrounded by three rivers which have carved out gorges that make for a dramatic setting for the city. As you approach the city, it is a wonder. Pitigliano sits on a bluff, and especially at night, when it is brightly lit, it seems to grow from the ancient stone. The restaurant is house in an old house that sits over 5 levels of cellar carved into the tufo. There are paleo Christian style crucifixes carved into the walls.

We were expecting just the run of the mill Tuscan menu and we got a marvelous meal. Kay had crostini di fegatini (assorted treatments of liver and other parts) and I had a super rich pate of fagionelli (some sort of bird, maybe pheasant) with chestnuts and a jelly made from balsamico. We accompanied this with a bottle of Quarz from Cantina Terlano, a massive and crisp sauvignon blanc made in Alto Adige. Next up were Lombrichelli al ragu delanatra and papardelle (made with saffron) with lamb sauce. These were incredible. Kay lightened up with agrodolce di verdure, roasted vegetables in a sweet and sour sauce with grapes, almonds and tarragon vinegar. I had a huge roast porcini. We drank 1997 Avvotore from Moris Farms, one of the 2-3 most famous wines from Morellino di Scansano. Its a cabernet, warm and smooth from the 2 years age.

We also ate at IL Tufo Allegro for our final meal in the Maremma. Kay wanted something light to drink so I ordered Lunare, Cantina Terlanos gewrztraminer from Alto Adige. Gianfranco, the waiter told us it was finito, so I could not restrain myself any longer and went for the Sagrantino di Montefalco 25 Anni from Arnolfo Caprai. From a crisp light gewrztraminer to a huge and tannic red.. Kay is a real trooper when it comes to indulging me. We were both glad we went with the Caprai as it turned out to be a fantastic bottle. We sat in the basement in one of the two rooms carved out from the tufo. There were crucifixes carved into the wall just like those of the Christian shrine by Sovana ,and we wondered if they were ancient or if they were modern touches but we did not ask. The chef was down to deliver every course and to talk about our love of wine. Kay started with a salad of warm bacala with potatoes and a puree of ceci and a pesto of zucchini while I had zuppa di porcini. Kay went on to cinghiale while I had the buglione di agnello. We finished with a tiny bit of cheese- gutus and escarum. One is a blue aged pecorino and the other is a plain aged pecorino but I forget which is which. The cheeses were superb especially with the huge red wine. The wine was so good that I asked Gianfranco if I could buy 2 bottles "da asporto" and they let us. The wine shop in town had the wine but it was already closed and the next day we were off. I think I paid about 5 more at the restaurant than I would have at the shop. The meal with the 3 bottles was under 250 but 180 of that was wine. A meal this good for 70 just amazes. 
Saturnia

*Il Due Cippi
 Piazza Via Veneto, 26a, tel: 0564/601074
 We were excited to have lunch here given all we had heard (here on the board and from other sources) but it was nothing special. Nice food but a little less earthy and intense than either Passaparola or Tufo Allegro. The acquacotta was too fancy and not peasanty, the grilled porcini lacked their stems (the best part) but my mushroom soup was nice with fresh Ovuli mushrooms. We drank a favorite Brunello, one that we have never seen outside Montalcino, Agostino Pieri 97. It was superb! Lunch was about 120 but the wine was a pretty hefty portion of that.
Sovana

**Scilla
 Via Rodolfo Siviero 1/3, tel: 0564-616 531
 We are charmed by the old photos of Sovana on the walls and we saw my friend Francesco Daddis Chianti in the wine cabinet. Again, we were just hoping for something good and we got a truly sublime meal. Kays antipasti was perhaps the best dish of the trip- insalata di grano con prosciutto- a grain salad with bits of very good local prosciutto that had been sauteed for just a few seconds, only enough to make the fat turn translucent and slightly darken the meat. Her secondo was a zuppa di ricotta made with local cheese. I had tortelli alla Maremma which was spinach and ricotta with lots of nutmeg with a light duck sauce followed by buglioni di Agnello which turned out to be lamb chunks in a tomato sauce. There is far more sauce than lamb which is okay by me as I sop it up with good bread. We drank a Traminer from Jermann and finished with incredible caffe macchiato. We had a second round of the caffe. We left the restaurant just as a wedding party of 170 was arriving. Under 100 euro with a good bottle of wine.
Montalcino and surroundings
SantAngelo in Colle

*Il Pozzo
 We had a very nice, rustic meal. I had zuppa di faro followed by pici with garlic and olive oil followed by boiled tongue with green sauce and fagioli. Kay had a spicy chicken stew and grilled eggplant. Our wine was a terribly disappointing Col dOrcia Rosso di Montalcino 2000. Very cheap, 40 euro.
Montalcino

***Bocon di Vino
 Loc. Comombaio Tozzi, 201, tel: 0577/8482333
 There are several tables in the shaded patio, with a view over the Crete Senese. The menu at lunch is a series of 3 fixed menus, each with a couple of choices. The dinner menu is al la carte. All the food was wonderful. Superb food in a fancy and modern style. Rich and wonderful food, very good with great wine list to choose from.

Our first meal there was with our Slow Travel GTG. We drank 2001 Rosso di Montalcino: Castello di Romitoro and Siro Pacenti. The Romitoro was a lighter style, very complex and stylish. The Siro Pacenti was huge in body and just a blockbuster in terms of fruit. The Siro was so good that we had a second bottle. 

Each of us (Kay, Jane and I) chose a different menu. Kay had the cheese platter. There was Talleggio and a rich cows milk cheese that were particularly good with the spicy pear marmalade. The cheese came with an Insalata dInverno. The cheese platter was good but not incredibly exciting. Jane had a chicken liver crostini (wonderful rich and creamy) , seafood crepe (cream and butter!), grilled lamb and a semi freddo, all excellent. I had an antipasto selection of ricotta in carozza di parmigiano, smoked bacala, cece puree and the chicken liver crostini, all followed by gnochetti in a tomato sauce and a crepe with smoked swordfish. My secondo was a cinghiale stew. The crepe was quite rich, a little too much for me, but the ricotta, the gnochetti, the cinghiale and the cece puree were stunning. 

We are now quite the stars at Bocon di Vino, having first come in with Diva (who was taken there by the Biondi Santis) and now with Andrea Costanti. Despite eating at lunch time, we were offered the ala carte menu, usually only offered at dinner. I had my, by then, favorite antipasti: achiugha con pesto: fat and briny anchovies with a really good green herb sauce. Kay had oca (goose) with a salad. It was flavorful and almost spicy. Jane had the cheese course. Again, it was nice but not incredible. Jane followed up her cheese with an insalata mista, simple and very good. Kay has a very delicious pinci with wild asparagus and other vegetables. The asparagus were pipe cleaner thin and quite flavorful. I had cervo (deer) with aceto balsamico. We drank a ton of Costanti wines: 2001 Rosso, 2000 Vermiglio (his super Tuscan 100% sangiovese), 1998 Brunello and 2000 Cal Bello (his second winerys cabernet Merlot blend).

***Osteria Osticcio
 Via Mateotti, 23, tel: 0577/848271, www.osticcio.com
 This is a Slow Food listed osteria, and a wonderful one at that. It is a first rate wine shop with some harder to find Brunelli and Rossi, and quite a selection of regional and national wines. There are tables in a small room at the back here you can sit and eat. The view is stunning. The town drops off steeply behind the building so you look out over a lower quarter of the town and out over the valley in the direction of Pienza and Montepulciano. 

The food is simple bar food, all prepared without a stove. Jane had a mixed salumi and cheese plate with a salad. The salumi on Janes plate are pretty standard: good stuff but the cheese is incredible: a capra mucca pecora mix from somewhere in Piemonte that was smooth as butter, an amazing caprino in wild thyme from Piemonte and a pecorino fresco. Kay and I split a plate of misto di Cinta Sinese and a plate of house made bresaola and a plate of anchovies al pesto. The fishies were fat winey things, with a parsley pesto. This is a traditional dish for local peasant farm workers because it was light enough to not slow them down and the fat of the anchovies would give them energy for the hard work ahead. And, Im sure, the indigestion would keep them awake as well! The Cinta Sinese is a local breed of pork that almost died out, but is now being revived. There is a lot more of it available on this trip than the previous October, but it is still a find. It yields salumi of dark color and musky, spicy flavors. It is beautiful to look at. The fat is pearly white with tiny pink threads running throughour while the lean is multihued dark reddish brown and pinks in stripes. 

We had prosciutto, coppa, salame Toscano, prosciutto cotto and a bit of lardo or gunwale. I am not a fan of lardo (or guancale) in general, but this was wonderful. The bresaola was also incredible: peppery, dry, chewy, served on a bed of nicely spicy greens. It just paled in comparison to the Cinta Sinese. The portions were generous, for two I would split a plate of Cinta Sinese or Bresaola aloong with the anchovies.

We drank well: 2 glasses of Antinoris 2001 Vermentino from Bolgheri (rich and honeyed yet dry and light all at once, a great value) and a tasting of 4 Brunelli: 98 Cerbaie was nicely rich and soft, the star of the group; 98 Siro Pacenti was overly oaked and not wonderful, but I suspect their style is not suited to an underripe vintage like 98; and 98 Collosorbo which was probably corked but full in body if a little clumsy. We also had a Greppo Mazzoni Ruffino 97, which was not too exciting showing the big winery syndrome typical of wines like that or like Banfi. I wish the big guys would trust the public to like wines that taste of something!

Lunch for 3 was 80 or so, cheap considering the quantity, quality of the food and the huge array of wonderful wine! If we ahd skipped one of the meat plates it would have been closer to 60.

***Taverna Grappolo Blu
 Scale di Via Moglio, 1, tel: 0577/847150
 A very traditional spot with a fair amount of wooden tables and a very rustic, homey feel. Our host was the King of his Quarter in the Festa della Tondo (held in October) and we have seen him in costume leading his quartiere in the parade.

We enjoyed a 2001 Agostina Pieri Rosso di Montalcino. Our primi were insalata mista, zuppa di fagioli fredda and pappa al pomodoro. The salad was nice enough, but the two cold soups were altogether wonderful. The bean soup was a hearty puree with herbs and garlic, redolent of good olive oil. The pappa was superb. It is a mass of tomatoes and bread splashed with loads of olio. Wonderful on a hot day! These were perhaps the best soups we would have on the entire trip. For secondi, Jane had prosciutto e melone which was nice. I had the house special of stinco al balsamico: lean cubes of beef shank, braised until fork tender in a sauce of a lot of reduced balsamico. It was a sweet and sour sauce, a tart foil for the rich meat. Kay had Cinghiale in white wine and herbs served with warm soft polenta. The caffe was good and strong.

*Osteria di Porta al Cassero
 Via della Liberta, 9 or Via Ricasoli , 32, tel: 0577/847196
 Small place with two entrances on different streets. Just down the street from the Fortezza. Very rustic and simple and incredibly cheap. I had a rich and hearty minestra di farro followed by lengua con salsa verde (tongue with green sauce). Kay enjoyed pici and then had the cingiale which was a touch dry but very flavorful. We split an order of incredible baked vegetables in agrodolce (sweet and sour). Our wine was an incredible 99 Canalacchio di Sopra Rosso di Montalcino. Very cheap, 40 or so euro.

 A second meal here was also nice- zuppa di ceci is thin with crushed garbanzos, pappa al pomodoro is less thick and more soupy than other versions, pici al pomodoro were very thick, rustic and chewy, bruschetta very nice and the tongue again very earthy and good. 

This is a superb place to pick up a reliable meal cheap. You wont be wowed but you will dine well. Its very quick and open long hours.

**Enoteca Fortezza
 Piazzale Fortezza, tel: 0577-8490777
 We have had several meals here while enjoying glasses of Brunello. The menu consists of platters of cheese and or meats. The prosciutto is Tuscan, with a more peppery flavor, sliced a little thicker than its Parma counterpart. They have very good aged pecorino made by Barbi (a famous Brunello producer as well). You can sit outside or inside. Cheap if you drink cheap, moderate if you drink the Riserva.

We had a Slow Trav GTG wine tasting here. For 18 we got a flight of 6 wines, a Rosso, a Brunello 97, a Brunello 98 from each of two woneries. The glasses are all labeled with the names and vintages of the wine. It is not a great bargain, it would be cheaper if you just buy the bottles but only if you have 8 people. But then you would not have the cool round labels on the glasses identifying what you are drinking. So for a small group, it is a good deal. The Enoteca Fortezza is now under the same ownership as Enoteca Drogheria Franci and some changes are probably in store. Still in all its a wonderful place to taste wine. 

We have often gone to the Fortezza to sample wines from the wine bar. They will usually have a selection of Rosso di Montalcino, Brunello and Brunello Riserva by the glass. The glassware is good and the help very knowledgeable and they enjoy talking about wine. There is no language barrier here. 

For a few euro you can get a ticket to go upstairs to visit the Fortezza. The highlight here is not the art exhibit or the troops quarters, but the ramparts over 1000 feet above the piazza and hundreds of meters above the surrounding country side. Montalcino is the highest hill town in Toscana and the ramparts are high above its highest point. The view is superb. It has low walls along the walkway so it is a superb place to rid yourselves of troublesome children or significant others, or to have someone take a picture of you and your loved ones. 

***Caffe Alle Logge di Piazza
 Piazza del Popolo, 1, tel: 0577/846186
 This "artily" decorated place is probably our second favorite caffe in Toscana (after Bar Orso in Monteriggioni). Be sure to check out the bathroom, I want one that nice in my house!

The cappuccini are served in large cups with the foam swirled into a heart. The food is superb: pastries and panini in the morning and a rich and tempting assortment of snacks served with drinks in the afternoon. Although we did not try it, they have a light lunch menu as well. But the enjoyment of having a Campari or Aperol rocks and a plate of gooey rich crostini topped with tuna and egg salad with homemade mayo made with local olio, while sitting under umbrellas next to 500 year old logge, all for 14, well..

**Il Re Di Macchia
 We wandered in sin prenotazione and were lucky to get seated. There were two large parties that night! We sat and ordered a glass each of Rosso di Brunello Castelgioncondo 2001. Kay started off with an insalata di coniglio- large chunks of roasted rabbit in a balsamico dressing. I had zuppa di pane which was greens, beans, bread served with a bowl of thinly sliced red onion and strongly spiced olio. It was heaven. We went onto a shared glass of Cerbaia 98 Brunello which was quite lush and berry flavored. I had miale arrista, a couple of slabs of very good roast port with salty but good boiled and sauteed spinach and great roasted and crusty potatoes. Kay had a winner in Pici al Cinghiale, hand rolled thick pasta with a dense and spicy wild boar ragu. We ordered some white beans. 
Montefollonico

***/**La Chiusa
 Via della Madonina, tel: 0577/669668
 We have eaten at La Chiusa 3 times- once for lunch, once for dinner and once for breakfast. Two of the three meals were fantastic. The first was a spur of the moment lunch. It was getting to 13.30 and we were racing to Montepulciano from Monte Oliveto Maggiore, trying to get there before all the restaurants closed. Seeing a road sign for La Chiusa, and recalling that it was supposed to be good, we took the turnoff at a very high rate of speed and made our way there. Actually I was asking Kay if she wanted to go as I was power sliding and tires were screaming. I took Kays silence (or white knuckles terror, I forget) as mute acceptance. We followed the signs and found the place with no problem. Kay resumed breathing before we arrived. 

We were greeted warmly by the captain, a stiff and formal gentleman properly gresses in tuxedo with ruffles shirt. There were exactly 4 of us in the dining room. We asked about two of the wines on the list and the Captain sent over the owner. Umberto, came over and treated us warmly after we picked out the local Nobile Di Montepulciano to drink (Innocenti Riserva 1995). We let them compose the menu and we proceeded to have 13 different dishes between us. The meal was truly over the top: one of the great food experiences we have ever had. Eggplant flan in tomato sauce, zucchini flower blossoms with ricotta, grilled porcini cap, torte of porcini with porcini slices and parmesan, porcini soup, bean and barley soup, ravioli di zucca with local truffles, ricotta ravioli with local truffles, papardelle with tomatoes and vegetables, veal "carpaccio", boiled marinated goose breast, duck breast roasted with fennel and grilled lamb. What a meal. 

Our third meal there was a breakfast included when we stayed in one of their rooms. Fresh baked goods, incredible citrus juice, home made yogurt and jams. Incredible and simple. 

The problem meal was the dinner the night before that breakfast. This was our first trip back to Italy after my heart attack and open heart surgery. I was following a very strict diet. We had asked again that the owners compose a meal for us. Instead, they were not there and we had to chose a la carte. The captain, the same fellow in the same tux and ruffled shirt outfit, gave us a lot of suggestions. I was talked into a filet with truffles which I would never have ordered on my own. I was disappointed, not at its quality but at the blandness of the dish. To start, Kay had a wonderful stuffed zucchini blossom again and I had a truly wonderful minestre di pane: bread soup. Next up, Kay had a mushroom soup that was light and brimming with the aroma of porcini mushrooms, while I had tagliolini with porcini. It was a little oily. While I was having my fileto, Kay had an incredible warm bacala with a pesto-like sauce and potatoes. We had an incredible pecorino stagionate con miele (aged sheeps milk cheese with honey). Much of the meal was quite good, some of it outstanding. The wine was sublime: Agostina Pieri 95 Riserva. But the sum just did not live up to the past meal. Maybe it was because I was trying to stay on my then new diet and was too worried about what I was eating. In all, we felt it to be incredibly expensive for a good to excellent meal. Will we go back? I dont know. Right now its a split vote with my vote being yes and Kays being no. Dinner for 2 with a good bottle of wine runs 250-300.
Buonconvento

*Da Mario
 Buonconvento is on the SS2, on the way to Montalcino from Siena. Its on the main street of the old town. Wonderful experience. We sat upstair in a room full of families. The menu looks huge, but Mama will tell you what actually is available. Only about a quarter of it will be. And, only the tourists (which is anyone who is not from the town, and anyone who does not eat there regularly, and whom Mama knows not only by name and what they like to eat, but by family history) will see the menu. When we were there, Mama knew what everyone else on the floor wanted to eat without their having to order. Either that or she was telling them what to have! Its that kind of place. We dined upstairs. Papa rules the roost downstairs. I think you have to be one of his drinking buddies to dine down there. We had a great rustic lunch for 4 for $38.00 or so. Good basic pastas. We had ravioli and pici, both very simple and tasty. For entrees we had carpaccio (wonderful), rabbit (small pieces stewed in white wine and olive oil chewy, bony and very tasty) and roast chicken (a quarter of a chicken for about $3.50 a plate). Our veggies were beans and french fries (simply superb). The house wine is nothing great but a good accompaniment to the food. 

**Da Duccio
 Via Soccini N76, tel: 0577/807042
 Da Duccio is also in the historic center of Buonconvento. It is a Slow Food recommended restaurant. The specialty is Fiorentina made from Chianina beef, served extremely rare. Da Duccio is a medium sized restaurant with lots of wood and lots of artifacts of the wine industry on the walls (old bills of sale from Biondi Santi Brunello etc). Jane had a platter of crostini e salumi which was quite good. Kay had home cured bresaola and I had a passato di ceci. The bresaola was good (if not quite up to the quality of Osticcio in Montalcino) and my passato was a flavorful and rustic version. The broth was very thin, flavored with a touch of tomato, and the beans were crushed into little bits rather than smoothly pureed. The Bistecca was large and rare. The flavor was superb. We had grilled eggplant and zucchini that were truly spectacular, and a bowl of fagioli. We drank a bottle of Dei Nobile di Montepulciano for 22. Desserts were quite superb gelati: Limone served in a carved out limone and tartufo bianco. The cafe was hot and strong: a perfect ending.
San Quirico dOrcia

**AllAntico Forno
 We dined there with Bill and Patty Sutherland who are friends with the owner and we were warmly welcomed. We sat near a cozy fireplace and looked at the menu. I was entrusted with the wine choice and I forgot what wine we drank, but I recall it being fairly good. Bill had the lardo di Colonata while I had pici with duck ragu. Both were quite good. Patty and Kay both enjoyed a zuppa di farro e porcini, the spelt soup thick and sprinkled heavily with cheese. For secondi, Kay and Patty had fritatte while Bill had a mailalino al forno (roast baby pig with the skin as crisp as cracklings) while I enjoyed cinghiale in a spicy sauce. We had some ceci and roast potatoes. All in all it was quite a nice meal. 
Trequanda

***Conte Matto
 Via Maresca 1, tel:0577 622079, www.contematto.it
 The town is a little picture postcard of a hill town. It is all awash in Yellow and gold shades of the Crete Senesi. We quickly found Conte Matto- a Slow Food recommended restaurant. It was starting to snow and so we went in to enjoy lunch. The place was totally empty. In fact, by the time we left only one other person came in to enjoy lunch. Since there were three folk preparing and serving our lunch, we were struck by the prospect of keeping afloat during the off season in a small village. The dining room was fairly large and there are several small private rooms off to one side. The ceiling was wood beamed with a wall of windows looking out over the newer part of town surrounded by green trees, sharp hills and a beautiful skyline. It was snowing as we sat and we were mesmerized at the cottony huge flakes falling over this beautiful scene. Of course we were a little worried that we might be snowed in! 

I started with a Cinta Sinese assortment. There was testa, salami, prosciutto (strong and chewy) coppa and lardo di Colonata. The meats were incredible with strong chewy texture and loads of flavor. We enjoyed a chardonnay frizzante di Trequanda with the antipasto as our wine aired. We drank a Mazzei Morelino di Scansano Belguardo Poggio Bronzone. Mazzei is the family that owns Fonterutoli in Chianti Classico and this is a new wine project for them. In the states this is a $50 or more bottle. Here it was 25 or so. It was very nicely spicy and loaded with fruit but after a bit of air, the specter of new oak came to dominate. Kay had a primo of ravioli di Pecorino di fossa with a saffron egg wash as a sauce. The cheese filling was incredible. The fossa was mixed with a little ricotta. The topping was beaten egg and saffron. I had a zuppa di farro con fagioli and passato di zucca gialla. It was not too thick. I was given a bottle of spicy olio and a pepper mill to top the soup. The food thus far was wondrous. We decided we were enjoying this experience far more than we had our meals at La Chiusa (totally different experiences)! 

By now we were chatting with Davide the owner. The restaurant had been in the family for 23 years and Davide had run it for 8. The cellar had 350 wines on it but he would increase that to 600 for the season. He had a beautiful original cellar that he used as a store in the summer. In winter it was too cold to have customers in. Davide has a web site and a mail order wine business in Europe. His cellar features vertical runs of many wines and he offers tasting in season. We will be back ! He has been offered the money to open a restaurant in such cities as Bologna, Roma and elsewhere, but he loves his hometown of Trequanda and we can see why!

Our secondi were Kays Piccione al Forno. The breast was stuffed with a rich and spicy forcemeat and then the whole was wrapped in a thick slice of prosciutto and roasted in the oven. Mine was a breast of duck, not too fatty, roasted and served with a lemon and orange gravy. We had fried potatoes (only good not great) and sweet and sour onions (intensely flavored). Dessert was a parfait al Mandorle. This was a frozen disk of almond ice, almost a semi freddo, topped with almond praline with an almost toffee flavor. I ordered a glass of Laubere dOlive 1988 Armagnac for under 10. Considering that if you can find it, the bottle of Armagnac would go for $120 or 150, it was a bargain. Our meal, an antipasto, 2 primi, 2 secondi, a nice bottle, dessert, espressi and armagnac, came to 96. What a bargain! Conte Matto was now our favorite restaurant in the vicinity, a distinction it would hold for only two days!
Lupompesi (just outside of Vescovado di Murlo)

***Bosco della Spina
 Lupompesi 13, tel:0577 814605, www.boscodellaspina.com
 We drove south and tried to find Bosco della Spina. We knew it was in a little speck of a town called Lupompesi just outside of Vescovado di Murlo. We followed the signs for Vescovado as there is a hotel there. Of course there was no sign for Lupompesi but we guessed right and drove off. We found the turnoff for Lupompesi. It is a collection of the hotel, a few houses and a large new building project of either apartments or condominiums surrounded by a few businesses. It was a bit dreary but less so than Vescovado di Murlo itself. We walked into the modern and highly designed place feeling a little grubby after our padding around the ruined castle at Crevole earlier that evening. There was a huge fireplace designed for grilling and the chairs were slip covered in bright fabrics. The lighting was high tech and there was modern art on the walls. Two walls of the place are glass and lookout over the unspoiled valley below. The tables were old monastery trestle tables, very heavy and slightly wobbly. But our waiter finally got our table stabilized. There were a total of 12 or so people dining in the restaurant. The waiter was slightly Germanic in feel, very formal and stiff. 

We looked at the menu and there was so much that looked appealing. Angelina from the Enotecca Fortezza had said this was her altogether favorite restaurant so we decided to go all out. We ordered a 95 Brunello Vignetto Manichaira from Silvio Nardi. Nardi makes very nice wines that offers a lot of value for the money. Vignetto Manachaira is his "riserva". The 95 was just now rounding into perfection. The waiter decanted it into a very modern and cool looking decanter and we ordered the rest of the meal as the wine breathed. At 57, it was cheaper than I could find it in town! The wine was rich and starting to get mature, and simply excellent with the food to follow.

Kay started with pepperoni agrodolce, fat slices of yellow and orange peppers, roasted and peeled and then marinated in a sweet and sour style. I had a cinta sinese plate that had one pepper on it surrounded by Capicola Lonza, prosciutto, salami, pepperoni, olive verdi and a crostino alle funghi porcini. All was superb on my generous plate. Kay had tortellini danatra, duck filled pasta in a butter and sage sauce. Although it was a touch salty, it was full of flavor and quite good. I had homemade trefoli, a rich pasta with porcini. The pasta was good a chewy, a sophisticated alternative to pici. For a secondo, Kay had sliced roast veal, quite pink in the center in a lemon and herb olio sauce. Her side was peas, onions and pancetta, the whole cooked until the peas were pale green and mushy. I loved it. I had a pork mixed grill with a few pieces of sparerib, a bit of sirloin and a sausage grilled till crispy accompanied by Swiss chard. Our dessert was a yogurt parfait with pineapple pulp. One of our best ever meals in Toscana. We commented we are so over La Chiusa. For the cost of one great meal at La Chiusa we have eaten at both Bosco della Spina and Conte Matto and have euro left over! Somehow, the drive home That night was much longer than expected!
Chiusi

***La Solita Zuppa
 Via Porsenna 21, tel: 0578/21006
 La Solita Zuppa is a restaurant of rare intelligence, able to combine traditional, even scholarly, flavors with modern elements in a non-showy, non fussy-manner. This is a restaurant with a sure hand and a well thought out principles of cuisine. We arrived just at then end of lunch so our experienced was a touch rushed, but not in an unfriendly way. The only unfortunate part of the meal is that I did not get to peruse the outstanding wine list. We had a carafe of rosso di Montalcino that was nice but not great.

Owner Roberto recited the menu starting with a long list of soups and other primi. I had wonderful pasta with a yellow pepper sauce. Kay tried a carrot and ginger soup and Jane had rich gnudi- little balls of ricotta and spinach in a butter sauce. For secondi, we had pork with apples, chicken with warm spices and a slice of roast chianina beef served cold with a green salsa. Everything was superb. And there were so many things on the menu we would have like to have tried. We will be back.
In the Castellina in Chianti area 

**/***Gallopappa
 In Castellina
 There is a sottoporteggio or underground walkway in Castellina. Here you will find store rooms for the residences and businesses above, plus one business itself. Gallopappa is a cellar in that underground passageway that has been converted into a restaurant. Crammed with tables and people, its a great place to eat beef. This is a younger crowd bent on having a good time. The beef is from Dario in Panzano who is one of the great butchers in all of Toscana. One specialty of the house is a rib eye roast, a similar cut to Bistecca but cooked in a large single piece as a roast, off the bone, and sliced into inch thick steaks. I prefer the traditional Bistecca. Great salumi antipasti. Very nice wine list with bottles scattered all over the place. Expect your meal to be interrupted several times by the owner looking for a particular bottle of wine that is standing in a niche behind your table. Did not pay so I cant say how much. I understand they have a new chef and the menu is a little more adventurous than previously. 

**Il Pestello
 On the Poggibonsi to Castellina road s429
 It is in the middle of nowhere; but it is very busy and fun. You can dine on a thatch covered patio in the warmer months. The inside is a series of rooms that have recently been remodeled but made a little sterile. The building used to be a horse stop where people would change animals on a long journey. The restaurant is in the former stables. The service is very friendly and warm. The menu is completely traditional. We have eaten there at least 5 times so this review is a compendium from all our visits. I think we have eaten here as often as anywhere else in Italy (actually tied with Fiaschetteria Toscana in Venezia which is a totally different experience). The menu and the quality have remained the same and the wine list gets better each time we visit. Prices have also remained reasonable. 

Our first visit to Il Pestello came on a cold and rainy night. We had seen the crowd of cars before, and came back very hungry and grumpy. We entered the bar area which is dark, dusty and uninviting. The old men at the bar and behind it just stared at us. But just as we were about to leave, a waiter holding an armful of porcini came and seated us. We will follow a man with huge parcini almost anywhere and we are glad we did in this case. In fact, we returned again the day after. 

The antipasti are good. The fettuna (grilled bread rubbed with garlic, sprinkled with salt and drenched in olive oil) is fine. The mixed crostini are substantial. Other antipasti include boar sausage, local prosciutto and other solid offerings. 

Primi include excellent soups and nice homemade pasta. Il Pestello offers 4 different soups. I loved the zuppa di funghi among the soups. They have an unusually good insalata di grano with a barley or spelt base, bits of chicken and vegetables. Pastas are typical and very good. Most are home made and the sauces simple and substantial. They have a pasta similar to Pici but calle, I think, strozapretti. They are rough lengths of pasta very chewy and topped with a meat sauce. 

You can see the wood burning grill at the back of one of the rooms so stick with the grilled meats for your secondo. Great lamb with rosemary and salt is my favorite dish. I almost always have it when we are here. The lamb is a little fattier than most American lamb but with a much more distinct flavor from the grass feed. You get a number of cuts from various portions of the animal. Rabbit, capriolio (kid) have been very good as well. They have the best grilled porcini in season. We never fail to order a porcini or two to accompany our meal, when available Two smaller ones would make a wonderful vegetable entree. They will bring by a box for you to choose and the price is by the weight. The procini are slow roasted over the coals so the edges of the caps are crispy and the stems perfectly chewy and meaty. They are douses with salt and rosemary. Sage roasted potatoes are superb: the sage crispy and the taters soft and creamy. Order the potatoes and porcini at the start of the meal as they take 25 minutes to roast. Nice local wines, especially Fonterutoli and La Leccia. Pass on the cheese plate if offered. Desserts tend to be okay although our nephews liked the Panna Cotta with caramel sauce. Figure on 30 to 50 a person depending on how elaborate you eat and drink.
People like me, who spend their evenings haunting vast, baroque dining establishments, puzzling over crowded, multipage menus and gorging (or trying not to gorge) on remorselessly similar variations of foie gras or molten-chocolate cake, often dream of escaping to a certain kind of restaurant. This imaginary restaurant is a neighborly place, tucked on an out-of-the-way street, where waiters aren’t excessively fawning and the prices aren’t excessively high. The room is big enough not to be poky, but not so big that you have to shout to be heard. There are no trendy circular lampshades hanging from the ceiling, no freakishly large flower arrangements sprouting to the sky. There is a bar to dine at, and possibly two. The food is various but not busy, and prepared in a way that highlights the ingredients instead of the vaunted skills of an egotistical chef. It’s a restaurant, in other words, where one would be happy to dine on an off night, on his own nickel, when it wasn’t his dubious professional duty to devour everything in sight.

Bellavitae, which opened not long ago on a nondescript corner of Minetta Lane and Sixth Avenue in the Village, is this kind of place. The modest little Italian restaurant occupies a single long room, with a bar in the back for eating and one in the front for sipping wines. The floor is covered with wide wood planking, and the ceiling with countrified beams. The proprietor, Rolando Beramendi, supplies many of the city’s leading Italian restaurants with their fancy imported olive oils, pastas, and vinegars, and Bellavitae (the name is a mix of the Latin for “beautiful life” and “beautiful vines”) is designed to showcase these rarefied products. So there are jars of chestnut honey from Lake Como ($17) set up along the walls, slim bottles of ancient Leonardi balsamic vinegar (a 100-year-old bottle costs $500), and little bags of baldo and arborio rice ($4 and $4.75, respectively) supplied by a contessa from the Piedmont region of Italy. There’s even a photograph of the rice-growing contessa on the wall, along with a rogues’ gallery (grizzled vintners, merry honey-makers, etc.) of Mr. Beramendi’s other suppliers.

If all this sounds a little precious, well, that’s because it is. Bellavitae is already a favorite haunt of delicate, food-obsessed souls who murmur over the quality of the green Nocellara olives (from Sicily) and the radicchio, which is state-inspected and picked by hand in the hills around Treviso. Unlike at some of the city’s other high-minded, ingredient-conscious foodie palaces, however, the menu here is presented casually, within the context of a familiar culinary tradition, and it’s relatively cheap. It’s the kind of straightforward, unfussy food that would send you into paroxysms of tourist glee if you came across it at a trattoria in the hills around Treviso, say. Like little pewter cocktail bowls filled with meatballs fried in extra-virgin olive oil, for instance, or grilled figs from Calabria bundled in strips of pancetta. There are toasty crostini also, layered with Gorgonzola drizzled with that chestnut honey from Lake Como or puréed chickpeas splashed with Sicilian olive oil and flakes of bottarga or stacked with chicken livers mashed, in the Tuscan style, with anchovies, garlic, and a trace of white-wine vinegar.

I liked the chicken-liver crostini the best, and would have ordered another platter or two if my cholesterol-fixated wife hadn’t threatened to grapple me to the floor. I also liked the figs, and the fried risotto balls, which are meager in size (they look like Tater Tots) but laced with nice bits of tomato and mozzarella. Before the heftier courses arrive, it’s also possible to indulge in a good, milky buffalo mozzarella tangled with prosciutto, and a variety of chaste vegetable dishes designed, in high Greenmarket fashion, to be admired as much for their beauty as for their taste. I sampled a decent salad made with perfectly spiky wild arugula leaves, and a wet, slightly wan-tasting plate of chickpeas flavored, it seemed, with nothing very much at all. The very good, very green fava beans are served uncooked, with nuggets of pecorino cheese, and then there’s the fancy Treviso radicchio, which isn’t bulbous like radicchios of my acquaintance, or even terribly bitter, but soft, almost sweet (here it’s flavored with more balsamic), and twirled with ribbons of grilled pancetta.

Unlike with the majority of brawny, overstuffed Italian restaurants these days, there are only four pasta dishes on the menu at Bellavitae, and four secondi courses, and they are more or less interchangeable as main courses. All the pastas I sampled were good, especially the thin tubes of egg garganelli tossed with an authentically beefy Bolognese ragù, chewy triangles of farro-based “pizzichi” pasta smothered in a rich porcini-mushroom-and-pancetta sauce, and a well-cooked bowl of bucatini piled with an assortment of shellfish. Among the secondi, my sliced steak could have been sliced thicker, and the tepid marinated sardines were obliterated by too many sweet onions. But the simple oven-baked pork fillet tasted fine, as did the chicken cacciatore, which was swimming in a rich tomato sauce filled with black Ligurian olives. There’s also a superior fritto misto, made with hunks of rabbit on one evening I visited and cod on another, and served, both times, with segments of fennel rolled in semolina and crunchy fried slices of Meyer lemon.

The menu changes often at Bellavitae, but many of the more exotic ingredients (extra-virgin olive oils, caperberries from Sicily, etc.) are constant, and many of them are for sale. The prices of these items are listed on the back of the menu, and some of the waiters hawk them a little too profusely. But this didn’t seem to faze the eclectic crowd, which included, on one of the nights I dropped in, several gigantic members of the New York Giants football team, all taking prim bites of pasta and squinting curiously at the labels of obscure Italian wines. Presumably these discerning gentlemen enjoyed the desserts, which are unfussy and agreeably Italian. There are wedges of spongy panettone, a dense slab of chocolate semifreddo dribbled with hazelnut liqueur, and a creamy, perfectly wobbly panna cotta doused with a grape essence called saba. Best of all are the gelati, which come drowned in espresso or infused with lemon marmalade and a mini shot of grappino (grappa flavored with Meyer lemons). Taste them delicately, like we weary gourmet professionals are taught to do, or do the natural thing and devour them whole.

My wife and I were in New York to get a tattoo from Chris Torres of NY Ink so we were looking for a close place to get some food while we waited for our appointment. They recommended the Meatball Shop to us. We walked over and were not disappointed. The wait wasn't bad, we sat at the bar and the bartender was great, he explained to us how to order off the menu which was pretty cool. I ordered the meatball sub which was served on focaccia bread with salad. My wife ordered the meatball smash which was two spicy meatballs smashed on a roll. For dessert we ordered a ice cream cookie sandwich. 

If you want to get an awesome meal if you're in the lower east side of NYC check this place out!!

Cool concept. Annoying wait. I like the whole ipad app for reservations and letting you know how long your wait is by checking on your phone but it was a ridiculous 1.5 hour wait!

We ordered the spicy pork meatballs which were great but not like OH MY GOODNESS these meatballs are the best ever. The pasta we ordered was slightly undercooked but we asked for a new plate and they brought it out to us. The risotto was meh. The meatball sub (with beef meatballs) was alright as well. 

I've gotta say the spicy pork meatballs are what I'd get again here but maybe only worth it for a takeout order. That is much more convenient at this place - just swing by to pick it up and no need to wait 1.5 hours for meatballs...

I'm not going to do backflips for this place.

The meatballs are very good.  I would hope so.  We went classic pork meatball with marinara.  If I'm dying for a great meatball in NY, I'll go back, but what's the hype about?  It's a good meatball.  My mom can make 'em.

What a fantastic restaurant.

Some of my friends took us here, and got me really hyped up for how amazing these meatballs are, and they did not disappoint. 

It's quite a busy place but the hostess will take your phone number, and text you when your table is ready. They send you a text first to confirm the number is correct, then you'll get a text saying "your table will be ready soon", so you have time to wrap up whatever you're doing. We went for a beer next door and it was great to not have to guess when our table would be ready. 

We were seated at a communal table and given menus. I think it's awesome that you use dry-erase markers to select what you'd like - what a great idea! It's a loud place so there's less chance of a mistake, and there are lot of customization options. You can choose what kind of meatballs, sauce, and sides if you'd like - they also have heroes and other items.

I chose beef meatballs with mushroom gravy, on top of mashed potatoes. We also shared a few pitchers of PBR, which is dirt cheap. The food was AMAZING - perfect comfort food. Every bite was flavourful and rich, and I loved the potatoes.

This is a beautiful place, with delicious food and warm service. The prices are also incredibly reasonable, for so much food it was a great deal. I will absolutely be back next time I'm in NYC, and will hopefully try an ice cream sandwich...love this place.

I went here a couple weeks ago when I was in town.  My friend had been dying to try it out and used my visit as the perfect excuse.

Being a vegetarian, I was a bit hesitant to agree to eat at a place that has "meatball" in its name.  Although they offer vegetable meatballs, I couldn't help but strategize on which surrounding restaurant I'd have to hit afterwards in order to get a veggie meal.

When we arrived, we found out there was a 2-hr wait (on a Sat night) but thankfully we were able to get seated in less than 30 mins due to some people not responding to their confirmation texts.  I must thank those people since I would never wait 2 hours for a table anywhere!

I really love their pick-and-choose menu.  I got the vegetable naked balls with classic tomato sauce in mashed potatoes and a side of the special salad. All I can say is "YUMMY!"  I was pleasantly surprised at how delicious the vegetable meatballs tasted.  My friend got the chicken, special and beef naked balls with tomato sauce and salad.  She simply loved her dishes and raved about it.

For dessert, I couldn't help but order the ice cream sandwich - 2 chocolate chip cookies with vanilla ice cream.  It was HUGE and very delish!


I had so much fun here!!
A couple of friends took us while we were in town and it did not disappoint. I LOVE that they will just text you when your table is ready. That way you can go do your thing while you wait for a table. We grabbed beers at the bar next door while we waited. When we were finishing up, our table was ready. BOOM!

I love that you just use dry-erase markers to select your choices on the lamenated menus. Seeing as it's very loud in here, I'm sure this has cut waaay back on mistakes being made due to miscommunications. 

I had the spicy pork meatballs with the spicy meat sauce. HOLY YUM. Also PBR is so cheap I think we got a couple of pitchers for our group and it ended up being $5 bucks each for 2 pints. Ridiculous. Next time I would probably get the pesto on my meatballs. I tried it and I liked it even more than the spicy tomato sauce. Which I liked a lot.

I am completely in love with this place and it will be a must-return venue on my next trip to NY. I feel like I owe my first-born child to the wonderful friends who introduced me to The Meatball Shop. Ikea meatballs just won't be the same anymore.

Man, do I love these balls. I've had balls in a drunken state late at night and naked balls during a classy not trashy date.

When tips I like the hero balls because the bread does wonders to soak up the alchy in my tummy. Actually sitting down for dinner is a lot different than ordering your balls from the take out window. For one, you can give them your phone number and go somewhere else and they will text you when your table is ready. EVERY restaurant should go with this method! 

When you sit, their menus are cute dry erase menus where you can mark off what you want. We got the naked balls with original sauce and a spicy sauce. We also got sides of penne and broccoli. Honestly the balls were delish - just stuff them all in your mouth and it'll be a party.

All ball and meat puns aside, they got some good stuff going on here.  I had the beef meatballs with plain tomato and it was moist, tender, and really meaty.  The mushroom risotto was really good as well.  The risotto was creamy and earthy from the mushrooms tossed in there.  Me being a fatty, I got a pork meatball on a slider to try something different and that was damn good too. This place is super affordable and I hope to be back soon.

On a dismal Monday at 9pm I came here to celebrate my first birthday as an "adult." I was in need of some serious cheering up. This meatball shop, The Meatball Shop, contained the cure to my wrinkle-filled blues. What better way to re-discover one's inner child then with menus that you actually write on with magic marker? What fun!

We didn't have any wait at this time, which I understand is rare for this place, so I recommend for parties of 2 people: Mondays at 9pm! My friend and I sampled a potpourri of different meatball varieties and sauce pairings: the veggie and the chicken fennel were my personal favorites. The classic beef has pancetta mixed in, this results in curiously chewy bites. The spicy pork was a bit dry. And the special for the day was a take on buffalo chicken wings. The main issue with doing this flavor in meatball form is that it inherently lacks the crunchy fried chicken outside - a major part of the pleasure of fried chicken. 

In terms of the sauces I sampled: the pesto was my favorite. So green, so fresh, so fragrant. They were pretty skimpy on the classic tomato and I wish this wasn't the case, because that might have been good too. I just can't tell! Maybe ask for extra sauce (If you like things a bit saucy like I do...) The same can actually be said for all of the sauces I sampled: Just not enough! 

Dessert really takes the cake though! They give you huge and I mean HUGE balls of iced cream. PLUS you can design your own iced cream sandwiches - I've basically forgotten how old I am at this point. We did chocolate chip + mint + brownie and gingersnap + caramel + snicker-doodle. Both were amazing, the mint was better. 

This is obviously a review for an off time, but the great part about this place is that they're open until either 4 or 2 am depending on the night. So if you're in need of a ball, or two, they're your men!

PS Possible celebrity encounters might also be in store for you: We saw Penn Badgley of Gossip Girl fame. Not that I recognized him, so bring a hip friend who knows what famous people look like when you go ballin'.

FOOD:
We ordered the Classic Beef Meatballs with the Classic Tomato Sauce, Spicy Pork Meatballs with the Mushroom Gravy, and the Special (Pork, Ham) Meatball with the Parmesan Gravy.
Classic Beef Meatballs with Classic Tomato Sauce was delicious. It was very juicy and with the Tomato sauce it definitely gave the dish a very balanced flavor... with the sweet and acidity from the meat and the sauce. Although it was a little different than I expected... but surely a great dish.
Spicy Pork Meatballs with Mushroom Gravy... this was the winner of the night. I think this meatball had a very nice depth of flavor. You got the meaty spiciness from the meatball yet accompanied with the Mushroom Gravy... it was just mouthwatering... Juicy, savory.... just delicious. We were so stuffed yet we wanted to munch more on that meatball.
Special (Pork, Ham) Meatball with Parmesan Gravy... this was probably the worst out of the three that we ordered. A lot had to deal with the Parmesan Gravy that we had on it. Maybe it would've tasted better with another type of gravy... but the Parmesan one really overpowered the meatball. It ended up that we tasted just the cheese gravy instead of the meat... So definitely were not impressed. 

PRICES: 
The meatballs (comes with 4 and a breadstick) costs $7.00. You are able to choose from the Classic Beef, Chicken, Spicy Pork, and their Special of the day. (No mix and match ... sorry) But price wise... its not that bad.

DECOR/ SERVICE:
Inside it's cramped.. .like SOOO MANY PEOPLE and LOUD. The bad thing is that the wait is usually at least an hour if not 2 hours. So you must have some patience to eat in. But if your not like me... def just hop to the take out and grab your food in only 5 minutes! But you gotta get out... you can't eat it in the restaurant.

OVERALL:
If you're going there.. I suggest take-out, unless you really want to eat in. You cut your wait time from 2 hours to be seated to only 10 minutes being served your food to go. 
Try the Classic Beef Meatball with the Classic Tomato Sauce. If you never went there before, like me, you should know how the original tastes like in this place. after that DEFINITELY get the spicy pork meatball with mushroom gravy... those would get you coming back for more. 
SKIP! the Parmesan sauce... it was just too thick and creamy for my taste. Truthfully I think thats what made the Special meatball tasteless... since the flavor is just so friggin' strong.

Came on a blisteringly cold, snowy but sunny day in NY with the bf to grab some of these balls and to check out the hype. We put our name on list and walked around LES to get a bite to eat and wait-out the 1.5 hr wait. When we came back 45 minutes later, we luckily got a spot at the bar (FIRST COME FIRST SERVED). 

Took Will T.'s top to write on the menu and not look so darn like a tourist. Yes, like literally write on it. Check the specials board in the back too for something a little different.

I decided to go with the single sandwiches. Like meatball sliders, with one ball per mini-sandy. Got the beef with spicy meat sauce, which was nicely flavored. Succulent but not spicy really. Also got the spicy pork meatball with pesto sauce, which also was good, but I liked the beef more. 

Bf gorged down a brownie cookie with espresso ice cream, loving each bite.

We got a sangria carafe, but i'd skip this next time... it was a little sour and not realyl worth your $13. 

Overall, it was good, but yes, it is overhyped. I would come back, but I wouldn't wait longer than 30 minutes. I'd definitely try to ponce the bar rather than wait out on a table. And next time, trying the meatball smash for sure-- melted cheese and meat and sauce?? holler atcha girl!

Holy hell. I came here last month for the first time. My friend had been talking it up and I was getting nervous because I've never been a meatball person, especially since I'm a vegetarian. But she convinced me that I would love it so I trusted her.

I haven't been able to keep these balls off of my mind since that lunch date. 

With it being my first visit, I didn't want to go crazy. I got the vegetarian meatballs over rigatoni with a pesto sauce. It came with a piece of bread and we ordered two glasses of wine. My friend ordered the coveted "Everything But The Kitchen Sink" which was meatballs and every vegetable they prepared. We also got a side order of some wonderfully creamy mashed potatoes. 

I don't know how to exactly describe how delicious my meatballs were. The pesto went perfectly with it. It was so nutty and delicious. I have had many vegetarian meatballs and they tend to be very dry and bland. These balls were moist and flavorful. They were not stingy on the pesto or the meatballs. I couldn't stop eating them although I filled up pretty quickly. They were far too delicious to waste. 

My friend and I sat there for a little while. It wasn't crowded since it was a Thursday afternoon and the staff was very friendly and accommodating. The waitress even sat an an empty table next to us as we gave her our order. It was very laid back but cozy. We got our food quickly and the staff was very attentive. My only critique is that they gave me a small glass with maybe half an inch of Riesling but billed me $8 for it. I understand that this is the norm for NYC restaurants but I could've bought the bottle at a liquor store for $4 more. I'm just a little disappointed that I couldn't get my buzz on.

All in all, great experience. I can't wait to go back.

Yay! I finally made it! I've been trying to get here for so long and I'm so glad that threat of snow didn't keep me from heading into the city on Saturday! 

BF and I made it to the Meatball Shop around 1pm and were told there was about a 20 minute wait for a table or immediate seating at the bar. We took the two seats at the bar and were ready to embark on our meaty adventure!

I decided to get the classic beef naked balls with spicy beef sauce with a side of rigatoni and a Sweet Iced Tea. BF opted for 4 different sliders: Special/Special (Buffalo Chicken meatball), Spicy Pork with Mushroom Gravy, Chicken meatball with Pesto, and I can't remember what the fourth one was!

My classic beef meatballs were tender and juicy and went perfectly with the spicy meat sauce. I expected the meat sauce to be a bit thicker (it was quite watery) but it's a sign of fresh sauce, really. I thoroughly enjoyed them, together with my al dente rigatoni!  

My sweet sweet BF let me have a bite of each of his sliders (I guess you can say we shared, since he did have some of my classic meatballs too). I was surprised that the Buffalo Chicken was good because I'm really not a fan of buffalo sauce OR blue cheese for that matter, but the meatball itself was quite good! I also liked that the buns for the sliders don't overpower the meatball... afterall, the meatball is the star of the show!  The Chicken Meatball with Pesto sauce was probably my 2nd favorite (I love pesto sauce!), followed closely behind by the Spicy Pork. The Mushroom Gravy sauce is eh... 

Overall, I enjoyed my first experience at the Meatball Shop (emphasis on FIRST, I WILL be back!). I actually really liked the Iced Tea also. It was more like an Arnold Palmer (half iced tea/half lemonade) and it was pretty refreshing (even if i was freezing my butt off that day).

Simply amazing. For the record, I'm generally lazy so i eat out often and I'm kind of a snarky a-hole when it comes to restaurant management, concept execution (i was in the biz). It doesn't bother me to say that this place nailed it. From the moment I stumbled in until I signed the tab, everything was flawless, even the annoying hipsters weren't so annoying, probably because they were feeding. My hat is off to the owner, creator. You bastard! I wish I owned it. Oh, well..

I was expecting an Italian type of joint but it really is a menu built around the mighty meaty deliciously oily meatball. Meatwad fans rejoice! Never being here before I looked around the room to get some ideas. I was hungry. I got a Hero and a "Naked balls with mushroom gravy".  The hero came with a small tasty salad too so that's a point in the "healthy" column. We don't so much count the 3000 calories of bourbon we just drank. That's an off ledger entry.

The Naked balls with mushroom gravy was the six sigma event. There are foods created by masters to be enjoyed by experts so that they can talk about how wonderful they all are, however much like a brilliant rainbow kissing a Kansas landscape of freshly watered sunflowers, mortals enjoy the spectacle, perhaps forbiddingly.  Each meaty mushroom bite was accompanied by a slight Sorcerer's Apprentice vibe (Der Zauberlehrling). Buttery, meaty, mushroomy, deliriously greasy, whatever the adjective you will join the choirs to sing  praise  of this Meatball Mushroom gift. 

Since I live so far uptown, I ordered some meatballs to go for lunch the following day. Everything was packed to perfection, even the forks were heavy duty, not that wimpy mouth cutting Chinese take out crap.

I realize that it is early to offer a full review of Eataly.  With this in mind, I will make a few comments and edit my rating and review as appropriate.  I've visited on three days, including the 8/31 opening.  So far I'm underwhelmed and disappointed.  The weekdays were manageable, but Saturday should be avoided (at least for now) at all costs.  The problems I have center around two areas.  First:  the flow of people is terrible.  Each section (cheese, pasta, dolci, etc.) has a long line to negotiate.  The mozzarella is delicious, but they ran out; the pasta and bread sections were understaffed...and the beat goes on.  Second, on Saturday I actually had to shout at the fishmongers to get their attention so I could take a piece of cod fish home.  They were more interested in opening clams for service at the raw bar.  Mario et al. are not new to the business, and I am sure that they will make adjustments and decide what they want to be, but please don't give up on the little guys out there.  On Bleecker Street you can go to Ottomanelli for meat , then Faicco for great pork and mozzarella and cold cuts, then Murray's for cheese; next door for fish and on to Amy's for bread.  I'll bet you will spend more time on the lines at Eataly.  Finally, I think it is great that Eataly was closed for Labor Day.  I never saw a sign so when I tried to get in today, the door was locked.  Come on--some signs, please.   Anyway, one star for now.  I'm sure more will follow.

I think the reviews here are way overrated. The concept is great but the layout of the large space is not intuitive. You can't say this is the Italian version of Mitsuwa in Edgewater. Mitsuwa separates the food court and the grocery store which I think helps manage the foot traffic. EATALY jams the two together. The layout at Eataly has food courts meshed in with eateries. Simply a recipe for disaster. Look at the Cheese and Meat area! Disaster. People lulling around, waiting for orders, and taking up walk way paths. I FEEL BAD FOR STROLLERS and WHEELCHAIRS. So unaccessible and not to mention a fire hazard.

Another thing that really irked me was that there is only ONE checkout area. I bought some cookies and dry goods in the dessert  area, across from the panini bar, but was told I couldn't pay here. I had to go all the way to the checkout area on the other side of store. I SIMPLY just dropped what I had plan to purchase and left after seeing the atrocious line. No thanks. LOSS IN SALES.

We decided to try the pizza but again, the wait time was 1.5 hours. No thanks. I would rather hit Lombardi's, DiFara, or Grimaldis. I would have been 20% there to Italy via airplane.


Let me start by saying that Eataly is top on my list of places never to visit in New York.  My girlfriend and I visited for the first and last time on Friday and had a horrible experience.  We walked in and went straight for the main restaurant to reserve our place in line for a table.  The host told us it would be about an hour and a half wait.  This was understandable because it was opening weekend and the place was packed.  We decided to wait and walked around the store to pass the time.

Overall I would say that Eataly delivers when it comes to brining the Italian grocery store experience to New York.  I just came home from an August vacation in Italy and can attest to the authenticity of the products.  That is where the allure of this overpriced tourist trap ends.  Let me also disclose that I am from Manhattan and enjoy doing the tourist thing once in a while.  This was different.

After walking around for an hour and spending $65 on two glasses of wine and a very small cheese and meat platter we returned to the restaurant to check on our table.  The host told us that they were no longer honoring reservations because the owner's family was there and that they would need all of the tables.  Who does that?  Needless to say I am telling everyone to stay away.

If you still insist on going, leave your wallet at home.  This place sells discount Italian brands at premium prices.  Sure, most of the product comes from Italy but even Italian's don't eat the junk that Eataly is trying to sell.  If you want a nice Italian meal, go to CRISPO.

The place is chaos- but not in a fun bustlin' marketplace way. It's an annoying, obnoxious chaos. Eataly has a lot of work cut out for them if they want customers to return. 

After fighting the crowds at 3pm on a Tuesday my friend and I finally decided we would eat something. 

Breakdown of SERVICE:

1st Stop: Pizza/Pasta station-- one hour wait, with hostess just taking my first name telling me to check back in an hour. That's not a system. Take my cell number. Or tell me to stand there on line.

2nd Stop: Vegetable Bar- closed for lunch. Bitchy counter girl.

3rd Stop: Crudo Bar. We ran for these 2 open seats .. smiled, finally looking on at our neighbor's dishes of steaming clams and crispy calamari arriving from the open kitchen. Then some monkey in a suit comes by to briskly send us away as Crudo Bar is CLOSED. (it didn't look closed). 

*I realize restaurants close between Lunch and Dinner- but this is an open marketplace, packed with people. They shouldn't just shut down certain cafes throughout the day. If they want to it should be posted on a schedule upon entering- as not to get one's hopes up.

4th Stop: Standing at the Cheese/Procuitto counters. We had to ask 4 employee with waiter garb on (aprons, pens and pads) to help take our order- each one referring us to the next employee--- None of which were actually able to take our order. Finally a chipper girl comes, upon noticing Mario Batali is 6 feet from us looking at our empty table, and helps out.

*NOTE: They were out of the $8 red wine- so she nearly ran off to get me a $16 glass of vino. Not cool. Beware.

FOOD:
Visually spectacular food porn. But the quality just isn't as comforting as when I'm at Otto's bar, with Bartender Dennis, enjoying the wide spectrum of cheeses and meats. It just wasn't as good as the other samplings I've had at his other restaurants. It lacked love.

The caprese salad was a let down. It looked delicious- but the mozzarella was TOUGH and very much similar to Sorrento's Prepackaged Mozz that you can find at Food Emporium. Heirloom tomatoes were very nice- but ruined by the poor quality of mozzarella. It was a shame.

Will I return for $5+ cup of gelato? No.
Might I get some fresh pasta on my way home from work someday soon? Maybe.

But I'll stick to Otto, Esca or Lupa for my Batali meals. 

The place is a mess right now.

They blonde untrained liar at the front and her manager said it was a 45-60 minute wait. After 75 minutes they said we were next. After 90 minutes they said there were 4 tables ahead of us. My kids were crying. The blonde at the front and the manager did not understand that lying to customers about the number of diners ahead of them and misjudging the wait by more than an hour was grossly unprofessional. The guests leaving who had dined said the kitchen mixed up the food, and that even after sending back the wrong dishes once the food was cold and poor. Mario, you should be embarrassed as your other restaurants are magnificent.

Totally chaotic and extremely expensive is the best way to describe eataly.
It is certainly not Italy. There are many issues here, the first one to catch my eye was the produce section which offered limited items that were blemished, wilted and not very well presented. Second, there is no line management. The cheese and cured meats are serviced by the same counter,
so after waiting over 15 minutes while the customers on line in front of me, 
tasted almost every cheese in the showcase, the counterman then  arbitrarily looked up to serve a later arriving customer ignoring the group of people that been waiting. The patron behind me was furious and the fact that they had no provolone enraged him even more. How can a market that touts abundant Italian products does not have provolone?
The fresh food counters were not impressive. Nothing here that you cannot get at your upscale Italian market or at whole foods. The offerings are limited. We couldn't find whole wheat pasta  - either fresh or dried.  The bakery, chocolate counter, fresh pasta offered very few choices. 
There were lines and long waits at every restaurant, each looking & feeling more like a cafeteria. We were able to get a table at the meat restaurant.
The food was enjoyable but, if you're spending upwards of $30.00 for an entrée, a little atmosphere is expected, without having shoppers milling about, looking over your shoulder into your plate.  In my opinion the concept is lacking - restaurants should be more secluded, away from the masses.
There are too many dead ends and ropes arranged into mazes. 
Tourist and non-native New Yorkers may be impressed, but there is nothing special here. It is a one time experience and I will not return. Expensive and unimpressive.  There is an abundance of excellent Italian markets & restaurants in all five boroughs.  You do not have to go far for the real thing and you do not have to go here.

So, a group of us decided to give this is a shot tonight - figuring, it's Wednesday night, should be pretty smooth sailing. I have to say, I'm shocked that there are actually 5 star reviews for this place. It's attractive, and had a lot of energy, but it's total pandemonium. The layout will make you cross-eyed. We were with four people and got seperated three ways within five minutes. Anything that even remotely resembled a chair was taken; resturants were packed with no immediate seating in sight.  Even the stand up food counters were bursting with folk from end to end. Did I mention this was a Wednesday night? I'm betting the weekend would be similar to any Walmart on December 26th. 

Yeah so we scoped out the place and in less than eight minutes,  proceeded to the exit and on to Casa Francisco near off 7th and 23rd. We were seated immediately, and within minutes had our order taken by a waiter in what turned out to be a relaxing evening with an excellent meal.  As for Eataly..I don't think we'll be going back any time soon to this mega-sized noise-fest, at least until the hype dies down.  I tell you, a lot of the food looked really really good, but I really REALLY wanted to eat this evening.

I stopped by on a weekday evening on my way home from the chiropractor. I figured it would be a good time to check the place out, and maybe grab some stuff to make for dinner.

I'm sure this place will be fine eventually, but as of now it's pretty much like going to IKEA, but instead of cheap furniture it's dead animals and cheese. The fresh pasta looked tempting, but the lines were too ominous to partake. Again, this is something that I'm sure will work itself out after the initial curiosity mobs wear off.

The thing that really creeped me out was the fish section. On top a completely open stack of sea creatures over ice, there were some large cuts of tuna. The sides had already turned brownish red, like ghetto supermarket sushi that's past it's prime. I'd feel awful for anyone that ate that fish. Come on guys, can't you put the fish in a cooler? I think the under-the-sea diorama thing looks cool too, but it's not worth giving people food poisoning.

I'll try this place again when I'm in the area mid-day, but I'm not touching the seafood.

So I made the trek up from the West Village to try out this new hyped up Italian Mega Specialty Market that I read about.  I'm not sure where to begin but here it goes....

The produce department  was small and lacked variety, really not any better then a local produce corner store.  
As I walked in, I felt like a cattle that was being herded out in the pasture.  I was rubbing elbows with more people then I cared to come into contact with. As I finally made my way through the bottle of tourists I started at the cheese department.  I tried their fresh mozzarella, it was ok, but I have had better stuff in a container. The cheese section looked nice, and but when I asked for a piece of Auriccihio provolone they didn't have any. Are you kidding me?
Next I went to the meat counter, the presentation was very nice, but the prices made me gag... $28 a pound for fillet? I mine as well go to a steak house and have it cooked for me. They had a prepacked meat department which didn't look that appetizing to me. 
I will say the fresh pasta looked good, although not cheap (there is a definite theme here)
In the grocery area, I guess if you willing to spend $12 for a jar of pesto sauce, for $7 for some dry pasta, and $10 for a box of tea it is ok, but make sure you stop by chase bank for a loan before you come into the store. 
The only part of the store which I thought looked really nice was the little restaurant cafe's (the pizzeria, sandwich shop, and coffee bar), but considering the wait to get a seat for pizza was 45 minutes, yeahhhhhhhh....scratch that!!  NYC has enough great pizza that no one should have to wait that long. 
The chocolate truffle's in the store cost over $40 a pound!!!!

One thing I did notice, it looks like this place is more of a place to be seen then a place to do shopping.  Everyone seemed to be walking around looking but no one seemed to be doing any buying.  If the name Mario was not tied into this place, it would be out of business in 6 months.

Fail.  Big time.  This is no way to run your business and treat your customers!

I ate dinner here with 3 friends at the salumi e formaggi bar, then ordered some crudo.  Secured a standing room table next to 2 gals as we were waiting for the others.  Those 2 gals then got kicked off the table....see story below:

Salumi was good, mozzerella was shockingly dry, crudo was laughably overpriced ($18 for 3 tiny slivers of fish).  Horrible service.  At least the waitress was nice to us because we ordered food and wine whereas she booted our tablemates because they asked her for water.  Exact words "This area is for people who are actually going to spend money and eat here.  If you just want to hang out, you can get out of my area and go to another section."  (I am witness they ordered 3 glasses of wine!)  Anyway, after all of our ordering was done... and we finished our food, the waitress completely disappeared and it was impossible for us to get our check.  We finally went to a random employee to pay... which prompted our angry waitress to storm back and command "who did you pay to?"  Uhhhhh.

ANYWAY, that isn't even the worst part.  After our "table service" dinner, we walked around to explore.  My boyfriend and I decided to break off and buy some pasta and mario batali sauce in preparation for a running race this sunday.  We get our purchases and happily go to pay.  The cashier was actually really nice and started telling me about the business and that they were finally getting their stuff together after initial opening kinks.  "Glad to hear" was my response.  

2 seconds later, I meet Idiot Door Guard Without A Soul.

As a paying customer who just ate dinner here and had a very heavy bag of 2 bottles of Mario Batali pasta sauce and 2 huge bags of pasta in my hand... it is quite obvious I was a paying patron of this establishment.  However, because I had approached the door after paying for my groceries, the Idiot Door Guard Without A Soul would NOT let me RE-ENTER THE PREMISES.  I was STILL IN THE BUILDING and my boyfriend was right in front of me (right where you start lining up to pay for groceries),  motioning for me to come back in.  The Idiot Door Guard Without A Soul sees this and says (paraphrasing) 
  "I see that you spent money here, and I know you're still inside the building and I can obvioulsy see that your boyfriend is still inside but if I let you back in this way, everyone else will also want to go back in this way and therefore you must go outside the premises and come back in through another door."  WHAT?!?!?!?  

I'm 15 steps away from the rest of my party in the interior of Eataly, just spent $100 at your restaurant and store, and now you're telling me I must leave the premises and re-enter through another entrance just because I just made a purchase at the grocery store and walked to the door???  I don't care what EATaly's "rules" are about this - there is no basis for it in the land of common sense, it's wrong and that's no way to treat a customer.  You've lost me as one PERMANENTLY.

I've been to many high-end super markets where there are casual dining areas where you can quickly eat and be on your way out. I walked into Eataly thinking that it was similar way... but not quite.

I was excited that Eataly could be Italian version of WholeFoods. I walked around for a while until I ended up at the pasta section. Then I saw Barilla...eh??? Grey Advertisement used to do marketing campaign for Barilla pasta... and I met the person behind the campaign... and according to him it's not an Italian brand. It's made in good old USA. So I was a bit puzzled... why in the heck is Barilla in authentic Italian Supermarket???? The whole concept of the place was that they are authentic Italian place with imported goods... but Barilla isn't although ad campaign wants you to think so.

Anyways, so I wanted to grab a pasta dish before I left. Oddly I had to waited to be seated... huh??? Isn't this supposed to be a casual dining???? The hostess made me wait 10 minutes even though there were many seats... I think she was confused because she kept looking for someone. After I was seated it took a waiter another 20 min to take orders. WTF???? I mean there were like 20 staff behind the counter but no one seem to know what they were doing! Hello? I am hungry???

I ordered simple spaghetti al pomodoro. How could they mess that up, right???? It was $12 per dish! But I thought if it was good I can justify $12 for a simple spaghetti tomato sauce. I had to wait another 30 min for it. In the meantime another waiter just tossed me a piece of bread wrapped up in brown bag. Huh???? At first I didn't know what to do with it. I had no plate, no butter, no olive oil... what am I supposed to do with it? 

During this 30 min period I heard 3 people complained about their food. It seems as though people who worked there really didn't care... their attitude was it's not me, it's you hahahahha

When I got my spaghetti I was just astonished... it looked like if my college roommate had put spaghetti-o on my plate. What is it???? In hopes that it may taste better than it looks I slurped my spaghetti... booooooo... the noodles were undercooked, sauce was dry, and most of all it was very blend. By the way, considering I am paying for $12 for blend spaghetti I didn't get cheese, pepper, or nothing! I asked and that took another 10 min... argh! I still didn't know what to do with my bread. Like I said I didn't have butter or olive oil to eat it with... and it wasn't like they gave me lots of sauce to eat the bread with.

I just wanted to leave... what a waste of my money... I asked for a check... yes, that took forever and ever too...

I don't think I'll ever go there again... I know plenty of authentic Italian restaurant that serves far better pasta dishes than they do... oh these restaurants give that kind of spaghetti dish for free when you order a meat dish...

I can't say enough good things about this place. It's good food at a good price, with excellent service. This was my second time there. We got to the restaurant for dinner at 5pm on a Saturday (with two kids, we always dine early), and it's a good thing we did - by the time we left at 6:30, there was an hour-and-a-half wait!

I love the pasta at Otto. Each pasta dish is only $10, and while they are on the small side, they are absolutely delicious and filling. The pasta is always perfectly al dente and the sauces are so good. We got the spaghetti carbonara (my favorite pasta dish) and the taccozzette con stracotto, which had braised pork shoulder. Both were excellent, albeit on the salty side. I've been noticing that the food is getting saltier at all of Batali's restaurants. It's not a real problem yet, but I could do with less salt. That's my only quibble with the food.

We also had the margherita pizza. It has a nice crunchy thin crust, if you like that sort of thing. I prefer a chewier, doughier crust, so I mostly stuck with the pasta dishes while my husband and kids enjoyed the pizza.

The waitstaff was a bit frazzled (the place was absolutely hopping), but our waiter and busboys were friendly when they did stop by. The food came out quickly and our water glasses were always full. It was just a bit difficult to get someone's attention when we needed it, but you couldn't really blame anyone. They were super busy.

For dessert we got the banana tartufo. The gelato was very tasty, but the dish wasn't really my thing. It actually costs a dollar more than the pasta dishes, so next time I'd skip dessert and order an extra pasta!

But all in all, a very enjoyable experience. The pasta prices are unheard of for an establishment of that caliber in New York. I would definitely return again!

I had High hopes about this place. But I'll still give  it a 3.5 stars (4 if you are a big Wine fan)

I've never see a WINE list BIGGER than the FOOD menu
So yeah, Menu was very simple, Low key with typical Dishes (Sides, Pasta and Pizza).

I loved my Twin's PROSCIUTTO ARUGULA - Super thin sliced with Layers of Prosciutto on top of the Crusty Pie.

I enjoyed my QUATTRO STAGIONI - Every 2 slices have different type of ingredients in it.(which was MUSHROOMS, PEPPERS, ZUCCA, COTTO).  

I give it 5 STARS for the Dessert!. I enjoyed (I should say LOVED) their Black and White  (MILK CHOCOLATE CHIP GELATO, HAZELNUT CROCCANTE, CRÈME FRAICHE GELATO, CHOCOLATE SAUCE, CARAMEL CREMA). The gelato was so smooth with chunks of hazelnut was the BEST combination to mix in my mouth.

Atmosphere is Crowded, a bit loud so expect to be more of a social dining than a date dining (Maybe after work hours and have a group to have drinks and chill).  Service was very prompt,  but at the end it slowed down (when I needed water).  
Prices were moderate in terms of Wines and Food.  Will definitely come back to try out more Wines and Pasta.

I attended a Grubwithus meal at Otto. The menu included multiple appetizers (6), entrees (4), and gelato (6 kinds) all served family style and thus I was able to try far more than if I had dined with one friend. And of all that, there was only one thing i really did not like - the mushroom pizza. It was far too "wild mushroom-y" for my tastes (but maybe not yours).

Our dinner, was great for a group and with all the food we received, a great deal.

Stand-outs:
Appetizers: Prosciutto - right amount of saltiness and sliced thin without too much fat,  Chutney-like sides - Cauliflower.  Also beets & saba. So good.
Pasta with roasted eggplant cubes, tomato sauce, and fresh mozzarella = Great
Pizza - Panne Frattau - tomato sauce, pecorino and an egg. Nice flavor!
Homemade gelato - peanut butter, coconut. And I don't even like ice cream!!!!
Pizza Vongole - lots of clams

Good / Standard:
Appetizer - Cheese platter with candied fruit. Lentils toscana. Sunchoke & escarole salad.
Pasta carbonara
Jalapeno (spicy) pizza - Definitely fresh jalapenos, just a little oily

It is quite a noisy restaurant and I wasn't very impressed with the hostess nor the wait staff (two hostesses told us different things, three servers appeared at different times to take our drink orders, when our food came we didn't always receive a description of what was what) but alas, the food and prices good enough to entice me back!

Jacqueline O.
Miami, FL

2/24/2012
I am very discerning with my five star praises.  Otto, you take the cake! Seriously... best. gelato. in. NYC. hands. down! And I've lived in Milan...

I've been to Otto twice. Believe the hype!  I've managed to order only the pasta and the arugula salad. I love arugula. I love pasta.. I can't help it.  Recently, however - I started a gluten free diet for lent.  So on the second day we decide to get Italian...but luckily for us (my friend happens to be gluten free also!) we were able to order the gluten free pasta (it's not on the menu, you have to ask!) the waiter was super friendly, helped us pick out a wine. I had the carbonara and my friend had the sausage and greens. both were delish! the carbonara is super filling, I might add.

It's usually a long wait so I'd suggest making a res. They have a super cute bar area though where you can order certain things.  We got there 30 mins before our res but they were able to seat us in 15. pretty good!  

Fast forward to... dessert. My friend gets the olive oil gelato every time. It's her favorite thing ever.  I opted for the pick two option. I chose the salted peanut butter and hazelnut strachietella. oh my god. It was like heaven in my mouth. seriously. I actually proclaimed that I would never need to get laid again. ever. and that is a huge statement. It was seriously that good. I'd go back just to get the dessert. delish!

And this is why you get five stars, Otto. Seriously. For the best gelato in the city... GO TO OTTO!

My meal at Babbo was random, didn't know I was going there until about 15 minutes prior to walking in the door.  We had reservations at Otto, and decided to pop into Babbo to see if they had a table, and luckily they said they did!  Unfortunately we wound up still having to wait about 45 minutes, but it was worth it.    Babbo is one of Mario Batali's most lauded restaurants, arguably only behind Del Posto.  Oddly enough, it lost its 1 Michelin star in 2009, while Casa Mono still has one.  Casa Mono is great, but not to the same caliber of Babbo, in my humble opinion.  

We had the traditional tasting menu, and it was amazing.  Odd note - it was half savory and half sweet - a bit odd for an 8 course tasting. The menu was as follows:

Babbo Culatello with Ramps and Pecorino
Langhe Arneis - Brandini 2010

Pappardelle with Chanterelles and Thyme
Vespa Bianco - Bastianich 2009

Duck Tortelli with "Sugo Finto"
Pallagrello Nero "Terre del Volturno" - Vestini Campagnano  2006

Grilled Guinea Hen with Pumpkin Fregula and Black Truffle Vinaigrette
Eneo - Montepeloso 2008

Coach Farm's Finest with Fennel Honey
Tocai Plus - Bastianich 2006

Gelo alla Val di Non
Moscato d'Asti - Brandini 2010

Chestnut "Palacinche" 
Montemaggiore - Occhipinti 2008

Sweet Potato Spice Cake with Lemon Mascarpone
Valeo - Odoardi 2007

Favorite dish was the Papperdelle with Chanterelles and Thyme.  It was just perfect and delicious.  Creamy and cooked to perfection.  Least favorite dish was the chestnut Palacinche.  Was about 8 layers of crepes-like dough cut, with chestnut filling between each layer, pressed, and cut into a pie slice.  Partially because I'm not a huge fan of chestnut, but I found it too heavy, a bit of a smack in  the face.  Would have enjoyed something a bit more subtle.  The main protein, the guinea hen, was done very well, and the truffle was very light - barely noticeable.  And the cheese and honey was pretty amazing. 

Wine parings were spot on , they each complemented the dish as you would expect.  

Service - was a bit on the slow side, I attribute that to the fact we were walk-ins and were sat in the bar area.   But our waiter was extremely knowledgeable and had a whole spiel about each of the wines going with the meal. 

Price -  I would normally say $69 for an 8 course tasting is great, especially at the caliber of Babbo, however the fact it was only 4 courses of savory, means it's about on pair with normal.  Wine parings are an additional $50 ($95 if you're going with the reserve selection).  Two tasting courses, one with wine paring and one with just 2 glasses, came out to a bit over $300 (incl tax and tip).  

BONUS - Celebrity spotting.  Saw both Ron Perlman (cool!) and Guy Fieri (meh) while there.

My first time eating at a iron chef restaurant :D :D! Super excited. We tried to make reservations 30 days before at 9am, but we had to try back several times and by the time we got through they were completely booked. GEEZ LOUISE! Anyway, we showed up around 830, since they have dining area toward the front that caters to walk ins. The wait was 1 1/2 - 2 hours, we knew what we were up against so we grabbed a snack earlier in the day. So we walked around Chelsea and came back 1:20 later. We grabbed a drink at the bar and before you knew it it was our turn. They have an extensive wine selection and friendly knowledgeable bar staff. Love.

We shared the prosciutto with pepper. I cannot explain why but the spiciness of the pepper paired perfectly with the fatty prosciutto. It was exquisite.I ordered the orichette sweet sausage and rabe dish. It was delicious. The orichette was perfectly al dente and the bitterness of the rabe paired extremely well with the sweet sausage. NOMNOMNOM. For dessert, we shared the gelato and sorbet platter. It came with a variety of gelato and sorbet flavors, such as: tangerine, green apple, olive oil, hazelnut, espresso, etc etc. All were delicious. Although it was nothing to die for, so I would skip on this and order something else on the dessert menu.

All in all Mario Batali did not disappoint. I guess his iron chef title is well deserved. The decor inside Babbo is class. The staff is friendly, accommodating, and knowledgeable. Definitely a NY must try. A great dining experience!

Oh Mario...why have you forsaken Babbo?
My first visit to Babbo was back in 2006 for my 30th birthday. Our party of 6 had the traditional tasting menu with paired wines and the meal and service were excellent.

Went back this past Saturday and although still a great meal, it was a bit uneven. We had reservations for an ungodly hour (5:45!!). But I forged ahead...it actually ended up working out great.

For starters, the entrance was MOBBED. MOBBED at 5:45!!!! Walk-ins? Over booked? No idea but it was unpleasant. And because the clientele wasn't exactly the classiest I've seen, it felt like I was at a really crowded bar and being continuously jostled by overeager d-bags trying to get to the bar.

We had a nice table along the wall on the first floor. Two of my companions ordered the arugula salad with shaved Parmesan. It looked simple and tasty but not very special. I ordered the buccatini all'Amatriciana and it was out of this world. The past was perfect, the flavor was rich and meaty. I wish my buccatini came out like this.
My fella had the Chianti stained papardelle with wild boar ragu. While the falvor was excellent, the texture of the pasta was not....it was clumped and glued together in a big old mess. I know papardelle suffers from this on occasion but to be honest, I expected a whole lot better from a Batali establishment.

My beau and I shared the deconstructed osso buco for two and I was underwhelmed...to be really honest (and downright obnoxious) MY osso buco is way better. The texture of the shank was tender but the flavors were underdeveloped and not as rich as I would expect from a dish like this. The orzo that accompanied was tasty if uninspired and the star of the plate was actually the broccoli rabe with garlic. I would have eaten an entire plate of that stuff.

We did order dessert and I had the saffron panna cotta and it was only ok. Not great, not bad, just ok.

I had such high hopes for this meal and I was a little disappointed (except for my bangin' pasta dish and the broccoli rabe).

Service was very good and I must commend the bartender on an excellent Manhattan.

I'm not even going to waste time talking about the service. I'll only say "SLOW" and that one table walked out after waiting a lengthy amount of time for the check and paid at the front and another table looked extremely unhappy. But either way, forget the service and just base my review on the food only.

I've always wanted to try Babbo and I finally got reservations last night (Sunday) for 9:30pm. We were seated in a very nice dining room upstairs, although it was very hot up there and one woman had to fan herself with her menu, it was a nice ambience. 

OK for the food..First the bread. Just bread, no butter, no olive oil, no nothing. My boyfriend and I both shared the goose liver ravioli and the lamb brain. Guess which one was worse. The lamb brain was just weird as we figured it would be but we didn't feel like finishing it because it was just bland and boring. I enjoyed the goose liver ravioli, although the balsamic vinegar was a tad too overpowering, looking back it was the only thing that comes close to being good out of everything we ordered. For the second course I had the duck. It was overcooked, almost dry and very plain. It may have well been unseasoned chicken. My boyfriend had the rabbit. Bad. I can't believe I'm saying this but WOW people must either not ever eat at other Italian restaurants to think this place is good, be on Mario Batali's nuts (excuse me for being rude but seriously), be in denial that they're spending a good chunk of change and convince themselves it's good, or be drinking lots of wine with the meal. This was terrible. Seriously, probably the worst Italian restaurant I've ever been to..that includes Olive Garden.

So extremely sad because I'm a Mario Batali fan. This doesn't make me dislike him because it wasn't him cooking the food as far as I know, but it's disappointing that they allow the food to be served so poorly. Do they even taste it before they send it out?

We got the pistachio chocolate semifreddo for dessert. So boring. It was edible but it wasn't really that good. If it was free I probably wouldn't have eaten it.

I'm sorry but when you go to a place like this you expect it to be great. I went to Maze (one of Gordon Ramsay's restaurant in the London hotel, except it's casual) earlier in the day and even when I ate something that wasn't my style or a taste I like, I still enjoyed eating it because everything was unique and excited my taste buds. Nothing about these dishes were good or enjoyable. I wasn't WOWed, I wasn't impressed, I have eaten better home cooked meals and food from chain restaurants that was $100 cheaper.

This place is all hype. Either the things other people ordered were miraculously on a different caliber than what I ate tonight or everyone is just drinking the Kool-Aid. There's so many other restaurants that are much cheaper in the area and 5x better. It came to $143 without tip, without appetizers, and only one cocktail. If spending that much money on mediocre food is fine with you, then go for it but otherwise save your money and go somewhere else. After we ate here we went to Mamoun's Falafel for the second time (open until 5am) and got the falafel sandwich and then went to Creperie and got the famous crepe and it was better than what we ate at Babbo. Talk about a let down.

Was a bit nervous after reading reviews on here but my daughter had been twice and was impressed both times. Eight in our party all had full three courses and everybody was happy with the presentation and quality of the food. Staff were very attentive, explaining in detail the ingredients of dishes, it was really busy but this added to the ambiance of the venue, will be back.
Visited jamies on Sunday evening after booking online.arrived before our friends but waitress tried to show us to our table.we said we would rather wait at the bar,so we were just left there,no showing us there,or giving us menus to look at while we waited,we had to go back and ask if we could look at them.
Our order was taken by a very over enthusiastic waiter,who just didn't seem to want to go away!.
Starters VERY small,I had the mushroom fritters which seemed to be one large mushroom sliced into 6 and the tinniest pot of garlic dip.
The mains were much better .the penne arriabatta was fantastic and everyone else enjoyed theirs too.
We just had cappuccinos to finish,but the cups they arrive in are ridiculously small with the strangest handles which makes them quite awkward to hold
All in all the place had a fantastic atmosphere but I think Jamie needs to come and address a few of the points I have mentioned.
When you go out for a special occasion,and expect it to be spot on,because of the name,little niggley things shouldn't happen .whereas it was a lovely evening,it could have been made more special by more attention to the little details.they are after all what make a great meal into a fantastic one that you want to tell everyone about!
My first time in Venice and we spent most our time eating, drinking and walking. This restaurant was by far the best food and service. We tried to tasting menu which finished with a plate of 5 deserts and it was stunning food all the way through. Very highly recommended and in my opinion worthy of a michelin star. In fact its better than the michelin star restaurant we dined at the following night.
Ad Hoc, Superb food and excellent service. We had the roman taster menu which was great value for money and gave us a great opportunity to try an array of dishes that we wouldn't normally order. Fantastico!
When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes.
BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers.
I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience.
Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one.
Have been here half a dozen times now over the past two years and it's always been up and down. After the last visit, however, I will not be going back. Mushroom bruschetta was literally mushrooms on toast - no herbs, no chopped onion, not even any seasoning. My pizza base was thick and undercooked and absolutely slathered in tomato paste. The ham topping looked like reformed ham slices that you buy in the fridge at Tesco and were only lukewarm. My largely untouched plate was collected with absolutely no comment. The food of my fellow diners was a little better, but presentation was mediocre and everything looked like it had just been thrown onto the plates with little care or thought. Disappointing.
We have eaten at Quattros for many years now and we have always eaten very well. The service is courteous and efficient. The choice of food is extensive and the quality excellent. The fillet steak is especially good and is served with one of three very different and very good sauces. Easily the best restaurant within the Lancaster area.
Not the first time I have visited Pietruccio's and how the times have changed for them. I don't often write reviews but after reading so many which extol their culinary and dining virtues and excellence, I have to disagree quite strongly. Apart from their food being extremely overpriced, pretentiously so in fact (for an Italian restaurant, I mean it's not as if we're short of choice in that department) the waiting staff were rude to me and the party of friends with whom I was dining, so rude in fact that one particular waitress was bordering on argumentative and quite publicly so. I have never been so embarrassed in all of my dining experiences. Had we have been a group of yobs, their responses may well have been justified but then, they price such clientel out of their market, the only plus point on their pricing structure, I feel. There was no menu, which I was surprised at and food just kept arriving every twenty minutes or so without choice or warning though when we expected the pre-requested coffee course (it took over ten minutes from the end of dessert for us to lose patience and put a discreet hand in the air) coffee never arrived. When questioned about this, the waitress again became very abrupt. I am incensed that patrons paying through the nose for what THEY want us to eat and in very small portions it must be said, can be treated in such a poor, rude and dismissive manner. Food was above average but not spectacular and not on par with previous visits, portions very small and certainly NOT worth their exorbitant price-tag. I shall never return to this restaurant ever again and forewarn others likewise and my friends and family feel the same. Overall, a teeth-pulling, embarrassing and awful night which cost a small fortune for the privilege.
I have been to Pietruccio's a few times now and every single time I have visited I have been blown away with the quality of food and value for money, not to mention the very friendly staff and chef Pino himself. The 'Gourmet Menu' in which the previous Review from Peter refers to is an absolute must if you are thinking of paying Pietruccio's a visit. I would recommend this to anyone who loves quality ingredients, isn't afraid to try something new and likes the excitement of not knowing what is coming next. It consists of 7 different courses and in my opinion each a very substantial amount. I have had the Gourmet Menu 3 times now and had completely different courses each time (apart from Pino's amazing Hazelnut ice cream which is to die for) and everytime I have came out planning my next visit! If you are someone who really appreciates TRUE Italian food (and not the chains who think huge bowls of pasta and fried breaded mozzarela sticks constitues a good Italian meal) which uses fresh local ingredients then this is definitely the place to be and I guarantee you will keep going back.
La Collina has long been a favourite on MK Reviews and a group of us paid the family run restaurant a visit on a Saturday evening. When you arrive, you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is a restaurant as it is hidden towards the back, situated in a large conservatory.
We sat on the comfortable sofas near the bar and chatted away while we made our selections from the extensive menu. After placing our orders the waiting staff returned shortly afterwards, took our glasses and carried them through to the restaurant for us.
I started with a relatively simple yet tasty dish - Mozzarella Impanata which is Mozzarella in breadcrumbs with a homemade sweet chilli dip. This was very tasty and not too heavy - a pleasant way to start.
All the other guests had opted for the Freshly Baked Ciabatta Bread & Marinated Olives, with an extra virgin olive oil & balsamic vinegar dip. The olives were incredibly popular!
My partner predictably ordered her favourite pasta dish for her main course – the Fresh Egg Tagliatelle con Rucola - with olives, sundried tomatoes, spring onions, & capers finished with olive oil, rocket, parmesan shavings & toasted pine nuts. This choice of pasta has everything! This is a colourful dish that has an abundance of flavours that combine brilliantly. Not only is this a healthy meal, it is incredibly light and amazingly fresh.
My choice was the Agnello Arrosto. Roast rack of lamb, served pink with Italian beans & pancetta stew on a rosemary potato rosti. For those who enjoy their meat dishes, this is a real treat. The lamb is perfectly cooked and sits proudly on a large, tasty and well seasoned rosti. The Italian beans and pancetta stew prove the perfect accompaniment. I loved the way the lamb was prepared and couldn’t get enough of the rosti. Delicious!
One of the guests opted for a fish dish – the Filletto di Salmone. Pan seared fillet of salmon served with crispy marinated vegetables, crushed new potatoes & a fresh herb dressing. This main course of fish will make you go “wow” when it is served to your table. A very pretty and well presented main course, the salmon is delicious with a dash of the herb dressing. The crushed new potatoes are to die for. You will immediately taste the freshness in every mouthful and whilst the powerful flavours of the salmon are allowed to shine through, the marinated vegetables and potatoes prove the perfect side-kick and they work together as one.
The popular Pizza Della Casa was our other guest’s choice. Tomato pizza topped with parma ham, rocket & parmesan shavings. This is an amazing looking pizza from La Collina that really gets the taste buds flowing. La Collina serve some of the best pizzas you can have, and the Della Casa is no exception. They have recently received a Gold Star Award for the quality and use of fresh and authentic Italian ingredients in their pizzas. They are reasonably priced too.
The restaurant has a cosy feel to it – the red vertical blinds give it a feeling of warmth. There is plenty of room between diners and we found the staff to be efficient but not intrusive.
When a group of you are dining there can be nothing worse than one of the guests be slightly disappointed with their dish – especially if you are so taken by your own choice. Here at La Collina though, we all sat there simply delighted with our choices and the quality of our food. This somewhat inevitably, means you enjoy the occasion all the more. We ordered some more wine and whilst some of us struggled to find room for dessert, I could not resist the choice of Amaretto & Cantucci Biscotti Cheese Cake. This is one of the most popular desserts from La Collina. It is incredibly light with a delightfully crispy biscuit base. It was so good in fact, that I was not in the mood to share!
There are very few independent Italian restaurants in the area so if you’re in the mood for pasta or pizza, or indeed an authentic Italian dish – then La Collina is right up there on the ‘must try’ list. We loved it!
It worries me sometimes when I mention Sapori to friends and they seem unsure where this wonderfully authentic Italian restaurant is situated. So before I share an amazing dining experience with you, it’s worth pointing out that Sapori is on your left just as you approach Woburn on the Leighton Road.
We have visited this restaurant a few times before, including on a Valentines night, and whilst this is certainly a great venue for intimate dining, it is also ideal for any occasion, whether it be for a birthday celebration or a business meeting where you might be keen to impress your clients.
We had booked our table a week earlier and every day my partner and I would say to each other - “Sapori on Saturday!” in eager anticipation of returning to this cute little venue. As we took our seats, it was reassuring to the see the waiting team led by the same young lady who had first served us almost two years ago when we visited Sapori for the first time. With ambient lighting, soft music in the background, and an incredibly enticing menu before us, we readied ourselves for what would hopefully prove the perfect dining experience.
We started with a glass of Prosecco before ordering a bottle of Vernaccia di San Gimignano D.O.C. (£25). Varieties of Vernaccia are rapidly becoming a favourite wine of ours. Renowned for being fresh and crisp, this particular wine was no exception. Easy drinking, it accompanied our meal perfectly. At Sapori you will almost certainly not struggle to find an abundance of quality wines on the menu. My partner started with the Gamberoni aglio timo e Pinot Grigio £8.50. Shelled king prawns sauteed with fresh thyme, and simmered in a Pinot Grigio sauce with a touch of garlic. This is a mouth-watering dish. Simply presented with five large juicy King Prawns circling a plate, this dish is made all the more exceptional because of the amazing sauce. The prawns were exquisite – incredibly succulent and perfectly seasoned.
I started with a ‘Special’ of Calamari, served with a garlic and butter sauce and a salad garnish. This was a classic dish that arrived with slices of lemon on the side. Calamari can sometimes be tough – but these had an incredibly light batter, were cooked just right and tasted sublime once drizzled with lemon.
Another special of Agnello (£16.95) caught my eye on the ‘Specials’ board. When we looked around the restaurant it appeared many people were doing the same because this main course of lamb cutlets on a bed of mash with a rosemary and garlic sauce was incredibly popular.  This looked wonderful on the plate, and tasted amazing. The sauces in Sapori are out of this world and they make very good dishes brilliant ones. The rosemary and garlic sauce was delicious, but in no way did it overpower the dish. The array of subtle flavours was Italian cuisine at its very best.
The lamb was served pink, and I enjoyed every mouthful. There was a lot of meat and because I enjoyed it so much, I paid little attention to the vegetables at first. But once I did turn my attention to some of the carrots, I was amazed at their freshness and how they were perfectly cooked – still full of flavour; they possessed a gorgeous texture that needs to be tasted to be believed. How do they do it I wondered? What was becoming very evident about the food at Sapori was how even the simplest of ingredients like carrots were cooked so very well.
My partner also opted for a ‘Special’ – the ‘Vitello’ - veal, with sautéed potatoes, with a garlic, rosemary and black pepper sauce. The veal was tender with a melt-in-the-mouth texture that was complimented by slices of San Daniele Ham (a superior version of Parma ham). Yet again, the sauce was amazing.
We moved quickly onto our choice of desserts and somehow, things just got better! My choice of Torta Alformaggio – toffee and vanilla cheesecake was definitely a sweet to die for!  This cheesecake was deep, with an amazingly light texture, drizzled with just the right amount of delicious toffee sauce. I wish I had not asked my partner to try some because despite loving her own dessert, she helped herself to a few more mouthfuls of my cheesecake than I expected her to – much to my displeasure!!
Her choice of Coppa Difrutta (a fruit cup in English) was a very pretty dish. Delicate and full of fresh strawberries and raspberries, it proved totally refreshing.
The staff at Sapori are incredibly on the ball when it comes to talking about the food they are serving. Not once did any question we ask receive a delayed response (you know what I mean – when the waiter replies, “Er, this is er, yes, er, actually, let me go and check with the Chef.”) Their knowledge of food, where it is sourced and how it is prepared was quite impressive.
In conclusion, it is somewhat hard to pick holes in the food. Every aspect of our dining experience was memorable for all the right reasons from start to finish and Sapori is a must try for anyone who adores authentic Italian cuisine.
If you have seen adverts in the local press for The George Inn, there’s a good chance your first instinct will be that this is a “pub somewhere near Woburn.” If you pay a visit and eat in their restaurant, you’ll soon realise that this is no ordinary pub. Nor you will probably feel like you are in a pub at all once sat in their cosy restaurant which offers a taste of Italy. This is quite a unique dining experience, with the option to have a drink at the front of the house next to a pool table, or make your way to the back where you will find a delightful and inviting conservatory. Welcome to The George Inn, one of the few independent Italian restaurants in Milton Keynes.
My guest and I decided to have a drink in the bar area first and make our menu choices here rather than wait to be seated. This allowed us to have a relaxing drink and take our seats when our food was almost ready. All menus are freshly prepared at The George, so be willing to wait for your food to be cooked.
Food
I started with the Oven baked field mushrooms, stilton, parma ham and toasted pinenuts (£4.95). This dish is full of flavour, incredibly fresh and all the ingredients combine to perfection to create an immensely tasty dish. The stilton has a real kick to it. My guest looked on enviously at this well presented starter but I was not in the mood for sharing.
There could not have been a greater contrast between this starter and that of my guest’s who plumped for the Scallops baked in shell, with lemon grass, chilli and smoked bacon (£6.95). This was not the sexiest dish in the world to look at and whilst the scallops had a lovely texture, more of everything was required to bring this starter to life.
For mains I opted for Porcini Ravioli (V) with garlic mushroom dressing (£11.95). My guest opted for the Tiger Prawns Linguini, cherry tomatoes, French beans chilli, garlic and parsley butter (£12.95).
My ravioli was simply out of this world. Incredibly tasty for a dish of this type, the pasta was fresh and melted in the mouth and the dressing was to die for. With plenty of Portobello mushrooms, this was a first class dish that really did offer that taste of Italy. I would put this down as a “must have” for anyone who likes Italian food.
My guest’s Linguini was also very well received. With plenty of generously sized prawns that were very meaty in texture, crunchy beans and tomatoes that popped when bitten into, this colourful dish offered everything. Another outstanding course that we would happily recommend.
My guest opted for the selection of cheese and biscuits (£5.95) to finish and our only criticism here was that we did not know what cheeses would arrive. I opted for the Chocolate Bomb, chocolate ice cream and chocolate sauce centre with real Belgian chocolate coating (£4.95). As a self-confessed chocoholic this dessert was never likely to disappoint and this was a more than enjoyable conclusion to my meal.
Décor
The George is a traditional looking pub with a small bar at the main entrance and various seating available for those just wanting a quick drink or a snack. The restaurant is situated in a large conservatory to the back with approximately fifty covers. There is a massive contrast from the pub side to the conservatory which looks and feels like a restaurant. With the blinds pulled half way, there is an almost homely feel about the place.
Atmosphere
Visiting anywhere on a Monday is probably not the best time to judge the atmosphere of any location but this is definitely a “friendly” place with welcoming locals and is the place to go and relax and simply enjoy good company.  
Service
You could not fault the service that came with a genuine and glowing smile. The team at The George know their food and what they are serving. Prompt and attentive, with impeccable timing if you needed anything, we left a tip on top of the normal service charge because we had enjoyed our meal so much.
Ok so firstly our table was at the window, not a big deal as no one can see it but we were literally on top of the couple beside us.
Garlic bread was a real let down, very doughy and our local take away does a better job. I think there also was a ration on the garlic too!
I had rice while OH had pasta, his was just “ok” but not as nice as mine apparently although chips were really nice.
My rice was eatable, but not that warm and not really up to the standard of a restaurant when I can make better risotto at home and I am not a chef!
Older couple beside us had pizza, eat most of it but said it wasn’t up to the usual standard, waitress took plates away and I could see her saying to the other girl in charge (couple could not see) see just laugh and rolled her eyes - great customer care.
Girl in charge lifted plates, noticed I had ate a quarter of mine and asked was it ok, I explained nothing really wrong with it to complain about but nothing right either. She just hmmm and walked away. Cheeky brat.
£35 in total and we went to McD’s on way home. Says it all.
Would I be back, nope, would I recommend, nope.
My partner and i arrived for lunch at 12 noon on monday 11 july 2011 fantastic two course meal deal on at present great service and my partner and i are still talking about the quality and presention of the entire meal and look forward to our return the pork belly a favourite of mine has to be one of the best i have ever eaten so well done to all .
Had a good meal in here during the week.
Penne al Forno was my choice of meal. Mince meat, pasta and cheese. Very good, similar to lasagna. There was plenty of mince meat which was good to see. Had bread to start too, which was also enjoyable. Few different variations of bread.
Place was cosy and clean. Staff were dead on, maybe could have done with a bit more interaction, not much chat out of them. Although saying that I don’t like places that needlessly ask you if everything is ok with your meal when you have your mouth full, so am glad they didn’t do that :-)
Two meals and a shared bread starter came to just under £25 I think.
I found myself in Birmingham – the land of pleasant taxi drivers, balti houses and a growing culinary scene – not so long ago. I was up there for an Arcade Fire gig (there were only seated tickets left at the 02 and I’d rather snog Brian Blessed than sit down to Arcade Fire) but of course we wanted to make the most of some Brummy hospitality before the big show. My first thoughts went to Glynn Purnell‘s new place The Asquith – his French neighbourhood restaurant in Edgbaston which has already wowed the local critics, but we were arriving at an odd time and needed to be at the venue by just-gone seven, so anything on the fine dining spectrum wasn’t really an option.
Instead we opted for the new Jamie’s Italian at the Bullring in the city centre. I’d still never eaten in any of Jamie Oliver‘s restaurants and was interested to see for myself how the most recent outpost of his Italian casual dining chain (which was a convenient five minute cab ride from our Ramada Encore hotel) would fare. This is a man whose 30 Minute Meals cookbook recently became the fastest-selling non-fiction book of all time, and there’s no doubting the power, influence and affluence of the guy, but what of his restaurants?
His latest addition certainly doesn’t scrimp on the visuals. Part of the city’s massive shopping hub complex, it’s got a vast, impressive industrial chic interior – all gleaming metal pipes, wooden floors and exposed light bulbs – and the whole space dominated by a huge, striking chandelier. There’s faded tan leather banquettes, a long open kitchen at the back with the chefs in full view, and a mezzanine level with rather posh Thomas Crapper facilities.
As soon as we arrived we greeted by the front of house team, who seemed to have already bedded-in pretty well, and shown to our table by our waiter, “Patrick”. I’m still not sure how I feel about having the first name of your waiter drilled into you (am I supposed to introduce myself too?), but for the record, Patrick was fabulous. After bringing us the obligatory glass of Prosecco, we ordered a seasonal ‘plank’ of Italian charcuterie to start with (anything that merges construction lexicon and pig products is fine by me.)
Shortly afterwards he followed with said plank – strewn with hams, salami, cheese, olives and all sorts of rustic goodies. Stand-outs were the fennel salami, pistachio mortadella and soft, melty San Daniele prosciutto. Seasonal pickled veg added a piquant twist and huge, juicy olives were devoured in seconds. At £6.95 each, it was an absolute steal and the best part of the meal.
For our main courses we’d both gone for pasta, with the philosophy that any restaurant group building its whole brand around Italian cooking had to be serving some properly unbeatable pasta dishes. I’m sorry to say that we were wrong. Before I get into this, I just want to make it clear that I’m not a part of the Jamie-bashing massive. I’ve liked the chef since he first appeared on our screens as a hyper-active, scooter-riding, market trader bothering young thing back in the late 90s, and I think that he actually deserves commending, rather than criticising for the culinary do-gooding he’s done in recent years.
But our pasta dishes didn’t sing as I’d hoped they would. I ordered rabbit ragu parpadelle (£11.35), the ragu of which came sans tomato – letting the lovely flavour of the slow-braised wild rabbit shine through. On the flipside though, it was rather dry, and could have done with a bit more mascarpone/olive oil to lubricate it. But it was the parpadelle that was the real problem. I was expecting smooth sheets of buttery pasta, but instead got a strangely frilly variant (below), which, when mixed with the too-dry ragu, made for a claggy mouth-feel.
My chum had gone for the cockle linguine (below) – which is made simply with chilli and garlic. The problem with dishes like that is that they have to be really, really excellent to avoid just being a bowl of boiled pasta with a smattering of cockles. Sadly this was the latter. It wasn’t unpleasant – according to my friend – rather it lacked flavour and sparkle and again, seemed rather sticky and heavy.  The cockles were fresh, juicy, and nicely-cooked, she said, but the rest of the dish didn’t demand to be savoured. Which it should,  for £13.35.
It’s not that either of our main courses were particularly nasty. It’s more that they were underwhelming and lacked the deliciousness you’d expect from a pasta dish in a great Italian restaurant. That said, considering that this is Italian food aimed at the masses, the menu isn’t run-of-the-mill. Scallop and squid ink angel hair (£13.90) sounded lovely, as did Buffalo ricotta ravioli (£10.55), and most of it, while not hugely cheap, seems fairly priced. The carafe of buttery, unoaked organic Chardonnay that we enjoyed was a joy, as was the service throughout the meal.
Jamie’s Italian is a good thing for Birmingham. It’s a stylish, spacious restaurant with efficient, friendly service and decent Italian food – the perfect place to drop in for a quick, tasty lunch with a bunch of mates if you’re in town, or indeed on your way to a gig. But celebrity-chef endorsed or not, it’s a fast-paced, big operation, and if it’s magical, authentic Italian food you’re after, I’d suss out something smaller and Italian-run.
I really enjoyed my dinner at this restaurant and would recommend it to anyone visiting Sorrento (except for people on extremely tight budgets). I visited for dinner at 8.00 pm and had the choice of a set menu or ordering a la carte. I chose the EUR 30 set vegetarian menu. Here is what I was served (remember, all this for EUR 30!):
1. Homemade bread with olives or almonds, and prosecco to drink
2. "Artfully arranged" julienned vegetables in a delicate sweet-and-sour sauce
3. Insalata caprese (tomatoes, mozzarella and basil)
4. Ricotta ravioli (probably in a sundried tomato oil)
5. Local, tagliatelle-like pasta in broccoli sauce
6. Grilled vegetables
7. Cake made from regional lemons (from a selection)
8. Lemon profiteroles
Add a glass of white wine and water, and my total bill came to EUR 40. They seemed quite keen on giving out little extras (not all of the things above were actually listed on the menu), so be nice to them! The menu clearly stated that the cost of the menu included cover charge AND service, so I didn't leave a tip. The food was all excellent; it tasted very fresh and homemade, and used local ingredients as much as possible. Service was warm, cheery and friendly... they were very kind to me despite my knowing nothing about eating in fancy restaurants! My only complaint would be the timing, in that there was practically no time for digestion between courses but it took more than forty minutes for my bill to arrive after I asked for it. I saw some children there at lunchtime, so I think they are used to catering to diverse crowds. There is indoor and outdoor seating, the inside is mazelike while the terrace is more like a garden.
The restaurant's website shows their menus (both set and a la carte), and also features some recipes invented in their kitchens (in Italian only).
L'antica trattoria is located on a side street in central Sorrento. It seats 40 people in an arbor and 45 more inside. Though it advertises a 'no smoking' policy, smoking was permitted -- and ashtrays provided -- in the outdoor area.
Reservations are recommended. When we arrived our name was printed on a 'Reserved' card on a table in a prime part of the arbor. Later in the evening people arriving without reservations were turned away. 
My husband and I visited Tempo for our first anniversary and were absolutely won over! After a memorable honeymoon in Italy we were keen to relive some of the culinary experiences we'd had and from looking at the menu decided to try this restaurant.
Situated in the heart of Mayfair you can expect to part with a fair amount of cash for the evening but I can honestly say that this isn't expensive so much as real value for money and worth every penny! The atmosphere is buzzy but warm and attracts courting couples, familes and business people alike. The waiting staff are dressed traditionally against the backdrop of contemporary and tasteful decor, and you are made to feel welcome from the minute you step in door.
The menu is fairly traditional but the ingredients and produce are top quality. The wild boar ragu pasta dish was sublime and we shared a veal dish that was melt-in-the-mouth delicious. They have a fantastic selection of Italian wines from which we selected a sensibly priced Barbera D'Alba - the staff are happy to advise according to your dishes and taste so you don't feel pressured in to pretending to be a wine connoiseur! 
We'd had such a beautiful evening and were so impressed with the food that we asked our waitress to pay our compliments to the chef - who then came out to speak to us for 10 minutes! He was a young man from Naples who was so modest and friendly, we'd been to Naples as part of our Italy trip so had lots to talk about! Overall the warm service, fantastic food and value for money makes Tempo stand out as a real gem in London's most expensive area. Can't wait to go back!
Perhaps I am at fault for having such high expectations but I came out thinking that whilst it was nice, I would not be returning. The food was was of a good standard. Particularly notable was the pheasant and mushrooms main course. The wine list does have some more interesting wines from Sicily and Sardinia, but the wine we chose Cattaretto/Viognier was distinctly average. The boar pasta I had looked forward to and it was very nice. The staff were Ok but a bit too polished (the classic presumption of mineral water "still or sparkling" and the mock incredulity/surprise when we declined pudding) but these are minor gripes. I am not sure what the competition is around this part of Mayfair but main thoughts on leaving were: that was a nice meal and what great food they serve at Jamie's Italian.
Went there for a work's do recently. We were seated upstairs. I heard it was crowded up there but what I saw was ridiculous - 32 people in 3 separate groups were herded in to a tiny room about the size of my living room and kitchen!
The service was OK but the food was terrible. I have had much better Italian food just around the corner from BB's. Was disappointed after hearing good reports about it.
Will not be going again!
I have been to BB's many times before but this was the first visit in a while. I was reminded of what I had been missing.
The food and service was excellent, and you can take your own wine if you wish (although the restaurant does serve alcohol).
The atmosphere was a little on the loud side, but this is to be expected on a Saturday night. The overall experience was excellent.
I had fillet steak (Filetto Al Pepe) and it was the best steak I've had for as long as I can remember.
I heard very good reviews of the resturant but this is not my opinion. I went there some time ago the majority of the food was fine but I was served a pizzza that I could have used as an olympic discus. It was obvious that I did not enjoy the pizza because only one slice was partially consumed. I was not asked if I enjoyed the meal and I vowed I would never take my wife or family there again.
In my opinion this restaurant is what Italians think the english want from an italian restaurant, they must be right the place is always full. Quality ingredients, good atmosphere, excellent knowledgeable staff.
Lively atmosphere, you would think as it was extremely busy that you would hzve to wait for your food, not so. Excellent service. I made the mistake of ordering Scampi with the risotto,.. it came still in the shell! But it yummy. Would recommend to all. Menu to suit all pockets too.
A big, sassy Manchester Italian restaurant with lots of personality, right next to Manchester’s smartest department store.
Pros
Lots of attentive waiting staff
Good range of classic and modern Italian cuisine
A great bar where you can watch the world go by
Cons
Too big for romance
This much service and style comes at a (big) price
Manchester Italian restaurant that welcomes a stylish crowd
Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.
There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.
This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.
Well, it only took us a month to try Prezzo again and we were better served. It seems only fair to cancel out my last negative review with a positive! This time we went on a Friday night (previously it was a Saturday lunchtime and it was quiet), we sat upstairs this time and there were more experienced staff on shift. All 6 of us had a 3 course meal with 2 bottles of wine and it was well worth us trying again.
Avanti restaurant in Exmouth. What a disaster we booked a table for myself and husband . On arrival the waitress who was like a hyperactive looked puzzled neurotict and sat us at a table that wasnt even set up so no point in booking. We ordered prawns which werent seasoned and I had fried mozarella with a tasteless tomato sauce which I seasoned myself with lemon salt and pepper. For the main course my husband orderd mussels with GARLIC AND CREAM and I ordered the vegetarian canelloni with sinach and ricotta. The bread for the Mussels came out BEFORE the stater. The mussels had NO CREAM OR GARLIC there was just some white wine at the bottom. MY canelloni was absolutely appalling. The ricotta had curdled and slpit and look like a bowl of SICK with 2 pices of pasta swimming in what was the most disgusting sauce I have ever tasted, I had no salad with it and no spinach inside, but the bowl of mussels came with a piece of lettuce, why bother, you dont serve salad with mussels! but it would have been nice with the pasta. We complianed abouth the mussels and the waitress and owner Donato came over and he started telling the waitress of at our table and it wasnt the chefs fault and he would have put cream if he had known. What a lousy excuse and unprofessional. The other waiter young lad was a slimy creep and when removed our starters asked us "was it niiiice?" like some lurch from the Adams family. We hardly had time to swallow our starters and the mains arrived no time to sit and relax like the Italian way, all rush rush. Lurch removed my main course platewhich was still full as I didn't eat it and didnt even ask if if it "was niice" Overall SERVICE WAS SH*T- FOOD WAS SH*T - PRESENTATION WAS SH*T-. HE is an insult to Italian and even more insulting to British people for fobbing us of that that is authentic Italian food . Donato should be ashamed of himself and the awful reputation he is going to get. Get yourself a PROFESSIONAL CHEF and decent waiting staff or you wont be in business very long.
Recently opened + owned by Donato,my wife and I had high hopes for a lovely evening meal, sadly the whole experience could not be further from the truth. Despite booking + speaking to Donato, on arrival it was clear that we had not been booked in.A table was positioned at the back of the restaurant for us and it was clear that couples are not the best customers prefering the large groups. Donato took the order with no offer of specials, my wife asking for a smaller portion but this was refused. A shared starter came out wrong with 45 mins for cheese and cold meats to be served. Overpriced and only a token effort on presentation. Left for 30 mins with dirty plates on the table and were only removed when we got up to pay the bill,no thank you or goodbye on departure from any staff least of all Donato. Exmouth resident for 15 yrs we will not visit again and there are better places to and spend money on in Exmouth.Not recommended
Having moved from London to Exmouth recently, we were really excited to see a chain restaurant investing in Exmouth and couldn't wait to try it. It looks good, in a great position but we were so disappointed. Firstly the waiter didn't hear us properly or understand us when ordering our glasses of wine, bringing the wrong size glass. We mentioned this and he brought us another - but we didn't want too much to drinkl. The portion sizes of the children's meals are odd - 5 tiny chicken wings or a huge pizza. It would be nice to see some garlic bread, pasta or vegetables with the chicken.We had to ask them to put the chicken on the fire again as they were served under cooked. The adult dishes were very average, although they are trying to introduce special menus by chefs displayed on the tables. It will be a long time before we try Prezzo again.
This is the only Prezzo I've been to, and I've been about five times - with friends, familiy, husband. Disappointed on two of the visits - tables for two are far too close together, near the window in the lower section. No privacy. Pizza had a funny taste to the dough - almond taste. Topping was overdone. The rest of the times I've been, service has been really good and the pasta dishes have been excellent. I often go with a voucher and enjoy the starters as well. Nice atmosphere, but particularly if you can reserve a seat in the raised area/area to the right of the entrance.
THE best-laid plans and all that. We were heading up to Crookes by car for a pizza when we got caught in the recent flash floods and ended up parking in Sheffield city centre and seeking out somewhere nearby.
My other half used to go to BB's Italian restaurant on office dos with his former workmates and enjoyed himself, so we thought we'd try our luck.
Leaving our dripping umbrella with a rapidly-growing group of its friends at the door, we inquired after a table for two and were in luck.
The very friendly woman who was front of house wasn't checking her list as an affectation – it was only early evening and the place was already buzzing.
BB's, which must be the narrowest restaurant in Sheffield, is affectionately known as the Tardis by some regulars. It goes back a long way and packs in a surprising amount of tables without being claustrophobic. Upstairs there's room for larger parties to gather.
The place is decorated like many an Italian restaurant here and in the mother country – rough Artexed walls are covered in pictures of home, old travel and film posters, caricatures and a big cartoon of the Italian football team. Further evidence of BB's love for the football team – the only beer on sale is called Forza Azzurri and the staff's smart black polo shirts boast their 2006 World Cup win in gold lettering.
This is a place that attracts a mixture of families, students and the aforementioned office groups or parties of friends celebrating birthdays. They also get pre-theatre and City Hall audiences.
The restaurant has been run by the Frusciante family for about 10 years. Wife Jill is front of house and husband Antonio is in the kitchen and two of their daughters work as waitresses. The third now has her own place in Burton on Trent.
Jill told me that the family have been involved in running a long list of Italian restaurants since 1980, including La Taverna on Birley Lane, the Flying Pizza on Glossop Road, San Lorenzo on Sharrowvale Road and Pizza Torino on West Street.
The prices look a bit steep at first – lots of starters are around the 6 mark and the main courses can go up to about 14-16.
However, a bit of astute menu-searching can find some bargains: you could share a starter as portions are generous and order a pizza or pasta dish and cut the main course bill in half that way.
Also, you can bring your own wine and, if a group asks in advance, the restaurant is more than happy to provide a set menu for 15.
There is a good wine list and, as Andy was driving, I tried a large glass of house red Montepulciano at 2.95, which was fine. He had a bottle of beer at 2.50.
After our friendly and knowledgeable waitress Carla had confidently gone through descriptions of the blackboard specials, I ordered the risotto (6.50), followed by tuna (14.50).
Andy stuck to the menu and had cheese garlic bread (5) followed by a Napoli pizza (6.95), which has his favourite anchovies on.
There's plenty of choice with a large menu plus three starters and three mains on the specials board.
The deal was to split the starters and our waitress, realising this, thoughtfully brought us two side plates.
The risotto was a fantastic red colour, made with a red pepper sauce and red pepper pesto, and came decorated with black olives, tomato slices and rocket.
It was as good as any I've eaten, perfectly cooked and full of flavour. It also went very well with the lovely, fresh-based pizza-style bread.
When a waiter offered us some black pepper my heart sank in anticipation of him grinningly wielding one of those giant phallic pepper grinders. But BB's has gone for something far more modern, one of those battery-operated affairs.
The attention to detail is impressive, especially on such a busy night. We didn't have to prompt for any part of our order and when I dropped a fork a replacement was at hand in seconds.
Our main courses continued the good impression.
Andy's pizza was very tasty and the base was as fresh as the garlic bread had been. They must have a proper pizza oven somewhere. I never saw where the kitchen was.
My tuna had been well cooked in olive oil and was smothered in a good tomato sauce dotted with capers and black olives. It came with a side dish of sauteed potatoes with rosemary, garden peas and carrots. They looked like they had been kept hot under a fierce heat but tasted fine.
After a bit of a rest we couldn't resist the puddings, once we'd worked out what c/c referred to on the desserts blackboard – cheesecake.
We were offered one of those terrible menu cards with pre-made desserts on but ordered homemade tiramisu for me and triple chocolate cheesecake for Andy. I also had a very good espresso.
The tiramisu was fine but there was a lot of it and for me it could have done with a good shot of booze in it to lift it. The cheesecake was fabulous but incredibly rich and it defeated Andy. He finished his lovely vanilla ice cream that came on the side, though.
Our bill came to 48.95 including drinks and coffee.
Verdict: Well worth stepping inside this Tardis.
You can never go wrong with a trip to Capri if you just want a simple, quick tea out with friends or family. Towards the end of the week it does get busier, mainly due to the offers that they have on. We usually go with a set meny, 3-course, which costs around £8.50, so you can't really go wrong!
Paperino’s West End brings classic Italian cuisine to neighbourhood setting
Paperino’s, the Sauchiehall Street restaurant which revolutionised Glasgow’s approach to Italian food, is proud to announce the opening of its new branch, Paperino’s West End, on Byres Road.
The new restaurant, which emphasises traditional Italian cuisine in a relaxed, neighbourhood setting, combines the extensive range of pasta, pizza and meat and fish dishes found in the original restaurant, with a new takeaway service along with early morning coffee and pastries. In addition, a new specially created children’s menu will be available throughout opening hours.
Paperino’s West End marks a return home for owners Stefano and Sandro Giovanazzi. The brothers were born and raised in the West End, and Stefano said the new restaurant was intended to be a focal point for the vibrant community which lives in the area.
When the brothers opened the original Paperino’s in 1991, the combination of classic food in a relaxed environment was new to Glasgow, and the now-classic look of whitewashed walls and terracotta floor redefined the way the city’s restaurants were designed. The new restaurant returns to that timeless design with subtle changes to suit the larger space.
Entry to the main restaurant is through large brasserie-style doors from Byres Road. The restaurant, although spacious, falls naturally into several distinct areas, ensuring diners always feel they are in an intimate and relaxed environment. Entering the restaurant, there is an area of round tables near the street, perfectly suited for relaxed lunchtime eating while taking in the street scene. A staircase leads to a mezzanine floor dining area, surrounded by an elegant glass balustrade, which will also be available for private functions for up to 40 diners.
In the main restaurant, a long bar down one side provides a focal point for the restaurant’s signature cellar of elegant but reasonably priced Italian wines. This part of the restaurant consists primarily of booth seating, with a side area occupied by a long bench and loose tables and chairs.
A third dining area also features flexible table seating, with large windows overlooking the picturesque cottages in the neighbourhood.
A feature of the interior are two specially commissioned murals. Painted by Glasgow artist Nichol Wheatley in the style of the early 20th century painters Albers and Delaunay, they reflect Stefano’s keen interest in abstract art.
The brothers were determined to make their new restaurant as attractive and welcoming to families as it was to other diners. As well as the new children’s menu, which offers a choice of main and dessert, along with a drink, for £4.80, the restaurant includes a separate room for baby changing, with custom built benches, a wash-basin and a comfortable chair. The room opens on to a large, lockable vestibule, meaning a parent with more than one child will be able to secure the entire area, leaving them free to attend to the baby without worrying about the other child.
The restaurant features a separate takeaway area opening on to Byres Road, which will be open from 8am until 10pm. In the mornings it will provide coffee and croissants and pastries, while from 11am it will offer light lunches such as pannini and baguettes. From midday it will offer the restaurant’s full a la carte menu as takeaway, at a 25 per cent discount on sit-in prices.
A free home delivery service will be offered.
Stefano says that despite the innovations the new restaurant introduces, it will maintain the traditions which have made the original Paperino’s a Glasgow favourite. “I have a great love of all food and wine, but I believe we should stick to doing what we know best, and that is preparing traditional Italian food,” he says.
There is a current of opinion among some of our staff that we should re-name our restaurant The Swan – on the grounds that while we’re perfectly calm on the surface, we’re paddling furiously underneath.
Like any successful restaurant, Paperino’s West End prides itself not only on creating a great night out for our growing portfolio of customers, but also making it seem absolutely effortless.
There is, after all, no reason why our diners should know, or concern themselves about, the complexity of the operation which puts a delicious meal in front of them at their command – but the fact is that it is something of an organisational miracle.
We have 185 covers at Paperino’s West End, our newest venture in the buzzing heart of Glasgow’s cosmopolitan student quarter. On a typical Saturday night, each table will have three sittings between the start of the evening, around 6pm, and last orders at 10.45pm.
That’s more than 500 customers and, if each diner has a couple of courses, that’s more than 1000 plated meals coming out of our kitchens – not to mention the constant flow of drinks from the bar. Add to this that, at Paperino’s, we have made a very public pledge that all our food will be cooked freshly, from first principles. All our pizzas are started from scratch, all our meat is cooked from raw and, apart from a base tomato sauce, no sauces are prepared in advance. As they say, don’t try this at home.
So how is the Saturday Night Miracle achieved? Well, a great part of the burden falls on the shoulders of the restaurant managers, who orchestrate the chaos and turn it into a mellifluous symphony. They must be simultaneously aware of, and be ready to deal, with a vast number of details, from the cleanliness of the cutlery to the market price of fish.
In the short space of time between the daytime menu finishing at 5pm and the evening menu starting an hour later, they must organize and motivate the staff, make sure the necessary prep work has been done and be ready to make sure that everyone is satisfied and smiling.
They also have to be diplomats, like Angelo Maresca, maitre’d of the Savoy Grill, who - faced with two customers he knew were arch enemies wanting the same table – placed a bucket on it, told them there was a leak and ushered them to other tables.
Since we opened in May we have built a considerable repeat business, with regular customers requesting particular tables, and these requests have to be factored in to party bookings or sudden rushes of business caused by seasonal factors.
In the kitchen, our 11 chefs are marshaled like a well-drilled military unit under head chef who decides each day what tasks are to be undertaken and delegates these to the chefs de partie, sous chefs, kitchen assistants and kitchen porters.
He is responsible for making sure that food is of the right quality and price – and is produced at the right time – planning menus, ordering food and budget control. He also has to keep records, know the law and how to apply it to food hygiene and employment.
Much of the prep work will have been done as the day business tails off around 4pm to 5pm, but as the Saturday night customers start to flood in the pace quickens dramatically.
One thing the kitchen has learned is that there is no room for Gordon Ramsay-style prima donnas or tears and tantrums. Instead, teamwork is of the essence and everybody does their job with skill, speed and efficiency – all underpinned by a comprehensive and continuing training regime and support not only from their bosses but from their colleagues.
Because this is what makes the Saturday Night Miracle work: the satisfaction that the team gets from looking out over the noise, colour and bubbling laughter of 185 diners engaged in convivial conversations over a meal that they’re really enjoying; the relief and exhaustion when the last tables are cleared; and a comradely drink before setting off for a bit of partying of their own.
And what makes it really special for them is the knowledge that they can do it all again next weekend, and the weekend after that. That’s what makes them professionals.
It may seem “unpretentious”, but this family-run Putney Italian can
be quite a “memorable” destination; the “enormous” wine list is a 
major plus, but the “rustic” cooking is “bursting with flavour” too,
and service “really goes the extra mile”
Regulars say they’re “always treated well” at this “well-established” venue near Putney Bridge, a “treasure that bats far above its weight” with “inventive”, “fantastic” Italian cooking and a “staggering wine list”.  “It’s a bit out of the way unless you live/work in the area”, but it’s “worth a hike to get there” – “generally quite full” so be sure to book.
Went to the argyle street restaurant for the 1st time ever for a special occassion & was delighted with everything from start to finish! The staff made you feel comfortable right away & ensured you were looked after the whole time you are there, we even got a special menu to celebrate our occassion. The food was simply fantastic, all beautifully presented & very well cooked - would highly recommend & will be going back again...soon!
Food was reasonable good selection, I would say it is a little cramped and not much of an atmosphere but maybe we just caught it at a busy time!! try the steak n cheese baguette with chips yummy!
Di Maggios offer excellent selection at reasonable prices would highly recommend something from there pizza list and there is a lot to choose from.
We use this restaurant on a fairly regular basis and the standard of service is consistently very high.
Not only have they softened the room but they've also added a separate street entrance which helps in establishing the restaurant's identity, despite the best efforts of the intrusively anodyne music. Veneto born Chef Michele Granziera, a Zafferano alumnus, has created a menu that traverses Italy and marries the rustic with the more refined. There are dishes designed for sharing as well as pre-starter 'snacks' if you really can't wait. The homemade pastas are a particular highlight, while the kitchen's creativity is given full rein on the 'Surprise' seven course menu which is available at dinner.
The menu here, although characteristic of the rich and hearty cuisine of Gascony, features classic dishes interlaced with modern and exotic twists, for example, confit of organic salmon, violet tea & citrus chutney and asparagus coulis, eucalyptus jelly & baby lobster. Furthermore, it is difficult to find a review not written in overwhelming praise; the inventiveness and skill of Pascal Aussignac (previously of Guy Savoy and Carré des Feuillants) is lauded and the foie gras dishes branded the best London has to offer.The open kitchen is buzzing, there are Parma hams hanging up, a seriously tempting case of Italian cheeses is on view and there are good smells around. What’s more we can see good food going past. There’s also a deli counter which seems popular and some stools where you can have a light nibble.We like the homemade breads, including various flatbreads. The latter are a little over baked but they still taste fine and there are cool hints of chili in one. Other bread comes freshly sliced and in quantity but with no olive oil to dip in, not so much a policy as perhaps an oversight. A plate of that Parma ham with bread is generous; the sweetly nutty slices tumbled in profusion across the plate. Head chef Nicola Buono has apparently personally chosen all the hams served here and he’s done well. We also share a plate of three types of cheeses, varying from a mild and innocuous Provolone to a near pensionable, powerful Parmesan. It’s a good combo, especially with a surprisingly good Chianti, a wine still suffering from its Hannibal connotations in my tiny mind at least. We actually chose it because it was about the least expensive we could see - Caparossa has an impressive wine list arranged by ten regions, but it’s a pricey one with a couple coming in at over a £100 each. Bit steep for me but the fancy flats above probably house wealthier punters.The pasta selection is small, but that’s reassuring and it’s well priced and interesting. Pasta e patate is a traditional Neapolitan dish not normally seen in the UK. It couldn’t be simpler, just fresh pasta ribbons with potato, garlic, basil and celery, but it’s delicious. Some of the potato has melted to become a thick sauce, the rest has stayed in al dente cubes. It’s subtle, rich and rather filling. P has Paccheri alla Genovese; squares of pasta smothered in slow-cooked, fall-apart hunks of beef in a herb and onion sauce. Again it’s simple, again it’s excellent with the caveat that P said the pasta was a bit undercooked for her taste, although the bit I tried was fine with perfect bite.Even apparently straightforward dishes such as pan-fried pollock have been lifted. The addition of squid ink adds saltiness and celeriac puree bitterness. My confit lamb shoulder with nicely chargrilled red pepper and a really powerful preserved lemon puree sounds like a conventional Mediterranean dish, but the crunchiness of white bean and the spice of harissa turn it into an international hit. So many flavours are dancing here it could all end in a crumpled heap but Loubet has choreographed this perfectly.The menu is short and brilliantly desirable. I began with snails and meatballs, which were both musty and meaty, with layers of corrupting flavours that were fugitive and memorable. Thierry had a clean and pale skate terrine that was pressed and precious and pristine, like a mermaid's packed lunch...Bruno manages, in all their hearty meatiness, to make his dishes taste as if they were prepared in a brothel full of expressionists and consumptive romantics. Welcome back, Bruno, we needed you. This restaurant should not have a michelin star. The presentation is very good but unfortunately the food is poorly executed. It seems that the chef doesn't have a fine palate at all. He only knows how to serve a beautiful plate, but the flavours are very badly mastered.Went here last night for a birthday meal with my boyfriend and absolutely adored it, the décor is lovely, the atmosphere is lovely and the food was gorgeous (if a little overpowering at times).Lovely menu, with a drink chosen to complement each course, a little bit pricier than suggested by this site (£85 for menu with wine, £55 without) but worth it all the same.We had the tasting menu with matching wines which was for the most part fabulous. I have to say the amuse bouche was revolting - a cucumber and artichoke granita. Foul! After that was a hare and venison terrine, foie gras in ginger macaroons, plaice in a stunning watercress sauce, a really inventive lamb variation dish (with a meat flower!) and an interesting bitter orange dessert.Matching wines were lovely and really enhanced the food. Service was excellent with just enough bowing and scraping to make us feel special, but not enough to make us feel uncomfortable.I would definitely go back and am really confused about the previous reviews! I would definitely recommend this place! The food is good but not magnificent, presentation of the dishes is quite simple, not elaborate. Service is good, friendly and attentive. I personally won't return. interesting..we went a la carte..the peanut ice cream amuse bouche was the most peanutty thing i have ever tasted! We were presented with flavoured butter with great ceremony and then had to wait for bread which when it arrived was handed out as though we had come to steal it! we never did see any more..Frog legs starter was excellent ..the duck carpacio prompted the debate of ' when is the duck raw!!' but interesting none the less. scallops (perfectly cooked!) and blueberries and ruby fruit don't go together with seafood someone please tell the chef...bad idea . sturgeon (perfectly cooked !) with bordelaise sauce ..very sharp, rather spoilt the dish. Then a spoon of something quite tasty arrived with spacedust in it ..very Heston..Desserts were on good form and well presented although there was something odd in the flavour of the cream on the Chocolate that we could not figure out. service good overall, ambiance lively, food good. also at the end ther were some very tasty chocolate things with an ice cold test tube of green stuff with a marshmellow bung... great fun! We looked with envy at some of the other dishes we saw..will go again.We were received with a smile and our waiter was quick to take the aperitif order and serve it, which we very much apreciate after a long week of work.It was hard to decide what to order, once we fancied so many of the dishes, but our waiter was very helpful in explaining us how the menu works and answered all the questions we had about the dishes (foie gras popcorn?). We went a la carte and left the taster menu for our next visit.Everything was delicious and we struggled to find room for dessert but had to have it because the pudding & cheese menu was so atractive! And it was worth it.I personally was amazed by the huge flower arrangement at the bar, amazing!I loved this evening and don't regret at all the bill, because everything was worth it.On arrival we felt a little uncomfortable and it really lacked atmosphere and ambience.The service was poor, we had to ask for rolls, twice had to ask for drinks, we had to ask what we were eating and when we asked to switch tables it felt uncomfortable as it seemed like we had asked something hard work and felt like we had put them out.The tasting menu itself whilst at times was delicious on a whole was disappointing. It lacked real flavour and the glazed snail dish really didn't have a flavour to speak of, good or bad.
When we asked for service charge to be removed (as we didn't feel it was deserved) we were met by a very very frosty reception. and our coats were simply dumped on a chair by the front door waiting for us when we left. Not what you expect when you've just spent 200 pound on a meal for 2. On the whole lacked brilliance and we won't be returning. We will defenetly recomend and come back.his would have been enough food for normal people, but we wanted to try the meats all sourced from reputable names in the UK. Most of them are grilled and with minimal saucing - in classic Italian cooking the sauce that the meat is cooked in is used for the pasta that precedes it.Tagliata di manzo con Parmigiano Reggiano was a great piece of well-aged beef crustily caramelised on the outside, rare as hen’s teeth on the inside, sliced onto a bed of dressed rocket and decorated with parmesan shavings. The slicing made it perfect for sharing, P being too full of pasta to contemplate a whole secondi to herself.Desserts we shared too, a Millefeuille with Bourbon vanilla cream and black cherries was actually about three feuilles but elegant and light, and a “Torrone” semi-freddo with sugar-coated pine nuts and candied fruit in rum was indeed a semi - a toothsome balance of ice and cream.You could pop into Caparossa and have a glass of wine and plate of pasta and feel yourself well fed. Go for all four courses and you could feel yourself a bit fat. This modern Neapolitan eatery has a lot of charm, some very good cooking and not an oversized pepper mill in sight. It’s all you want in a neighbourhood restaurant and I’ll definitely be back come summer.If you've ever been up Arthur's Seat and looked south to a golf course and a distinctive circular building (once stables, now used for functions), you'll have also been looking at Prestonfield House, recently refurbished as a hotel with a fantastic restaurant. Use this knowledge to reassure yourself that you're not headed in the wrong direction as you approach past the endless fifties bungalows lining Priestfield Road: eventually you'll reach the driveway to a grand floodlit building, and your goal, the dimly lit dining room glittering with candles. You are now in food paradise. The menu is extensive; there's fish, fowl, venison, beef and lamb dishes, often multiple instances of each. Everything we tried was faultless, including the absolutely delicious puddings. The courses arrive at a relaxed pace, and after a couple of hours of indulgence you can retire, satiated, to a more comfortable situation in an armchair or sofa by the fires in one of the sitting rooms upstairs.Warning: Expect to spend on the order of fifty quid per head on an evening out here. The choice for vegetarians is quite limited.Considering the formidable (or perhaps just overhyped) reputation this place seems to have established, we were surprised how just pleasantly low key and informal it is. We were in the vaulted stone-and-wood-panel room adjacent to the Royal Mile which, by candlelight, is a superb setting. There's another dining area further back in the building which we only glanced into which seemed more open and less gothic. The food is good honest un-mucked-about-with Best-of-Scotland stuff, and somehow a simple meal of oysters, a big chunk of beef and the multi-pudding selection went on for hours. Bliss.Warning: As with it's sister restaurant Rhubarb, this place can inflict serious damage on your bank account. But a "Witchery Experience" gift voucher does make a very nice present for special people. Absurdly expensive posh nosh. Fortunately there are occasionally special offers courtesy of groupon so keep a lookout there. The food is surely Michelin-star quality, but without the fussy pretentiousness or cringingly obsequious service; indeed there is a positively quirky, individualistic feel about the place. The setting is a small intimate dining room with a handful of tables (quite a contrast to the cavernous adjacent Whisky Room bar) and the atmosphere is relaxed enough that it doesn't seem at all out of order to strike up some conversation with the other tables. Get genial host Silvio (who clearly has a loyal following of regulars) talking about what you're eating and you could be treated to a passionate commentary on, say, balsamic vinegar selection or the challenges encountered sourcing your bottle of wine. A meal here should probably be on any Edinburgh foodies hit list; it's certainly one of Edinburgh's more "interesting eats".Well we finally got around to visiting the third member of the self-proclaimed "Edinburgh's Best Restaurants" trinity (the others being the Witchery and Rhubarb). "Not cheap" alert: we were there on a thirty-pounds-for-three-courses deal; the same budget would just get you into two courses territory on the main menu. The wine list starts just under Â£20 and escalates rapidly. Given the location on the upper floors in the museum we were expecting better skyline views of Edinburgh but in fact it's not quite high enough (just go up on the museum roof terrace during normal opening hours for that instead). The place is rather modern (reminiscent of Atrium, but more crowded and busy) and service just a little too quick for our taste. Food veers to the "popular" end of the spectrum; think pork belly, steak and chips and fun like "posh" fish fingers - sorry I mean goujons - and mushy peas. According to the menu Tower take their beef seriously and indeed the beef bourguignon turned out to be the star of our meal. Deserts were excellent too (the warm poached pear frangipane and custard... mmmmmm!). But right now I'd have to say, given the choice of going back to the Tower or visiting Rhubarb/Witchery... I'd pick one of the others. We don't venture out to this part of town very often, but if First Coast is anything to go by we should make the effort more often. A large and unusually cosmopolitan menu with homegrown favourites like Aberdeen angus or pork belly sitting alongside mainly asian flavours such as fish with chilli, lemongrass, banana leaf and nasi goreng or a stir fry with jasmine rice. Combine with excellent service, a relaxed atmosphere and prices that aren't sky high... altogether a great combination.Cosy, lively, friendly and most importantly incredibly delicious. The menu is quite fish intensive, and there are absolutely fantastic puddings too. Quite pricey but worth every penny for a memorable night. Excellent restaurant located in the basement of the amazing Bruntsfield branch of Peckham's deli. The diner style seating around stainless-steel tables has you initially half expecting a burger-and-fries menu but in fact it's interesting bistro fare and generous portions. With things like a whole baked camembert on the menu for starters, you definitely want to have worked up a good appetite before you head here. We were in on a quiet night and found the combination of comfy seats, chilled music, dim lights and full stomachs induced such levels of soporific relaxation that we couldn't bring ourselves to head out into the cold winter night until closing time. There is a huge wine list (presumably reflecting the stocks in the deli upstairs). They have a not-very-informative website.Good value and the extensive menu has plenty of meat, fish and veggie options. Starters and mains were top notch. Unfortunately the deserts seemed a bit more variable, the orange and pecan bread and butter pudding being absolutely incredible, while the creme brulee with a Toffee Crisp in it (yes, the Nestle confectionery) was a sickly gimmick. The restaurant occupies several rather small rooms which get very noisy and warm. A quiet (and remarkably clean; seriously, the place is just spotless) little restaurant near the university. The extensive menu defies easy classification - choose between Scottish, Italian and Mediterranean - and if that wasn't confusing enough they also open early for Sunday brunch fry-ups. We thought the three-courses-for-twenty-quid dinner menu (2 course deal also available) was very good value (with generous portion sizes) the highlights being a massively tasty ox-tongue starter and an amazing chocolate and orange cake dessert. Cafe downstairs, shop upstairs, all with an organic/wholefoods/seasonal/local theme. Feels like the Hendersons of the south side (it's far too up-market to possibly be compared with the much missed Susi's Diner), although with the big difference that you'll find meat on the menu. Certainly just as crowded and popular as Hendersons at the weekend. There's a gimmick of food being served on thick wooden chopping boards rather than plates. Seemed rather expensive for what it is. Open a bit later than most cafes, although not on into the evening. On Sunday lunchtime at least this is another busy and buzzing New Town place in the Hendersons/Urban Angel area. Unusually for an Italian (in our experience) the pasta surpassed the pizza, the pizza being disappointingly soggy while the pasta (or more specifically its blue-cheese based sauce) was absolutely delicious. Service was excellent, apparently nothing being too much trouble for the waiters. The ventilation seems insufficient though; while the occasional pillars of flame in the tiny cooking area are entertaining, they do seem to contribute to making the place rather smoky.The Cafe Royal is two bits. The restaurant is the Oyster Bar, and next to it is the Circle Bar, which is one of Edinburgh's nicest pubs so making time for a pre-dinner drink is essential. The bar gets pretty busy with the post-work crowd but then seems to thin out later, so you've got more chance of a seat in the comfy booths and a quieter meal next door the later you eat. The food is good, with a bias towards fish (and oysters!) but to be honest it's the spectacular Victorian era decor (sporting-themed stained-glass windows, black and white marble floors) which makes dining here a memorable occasion. Would have surely deserved a higher yumminess rating if they hadn't been short staffed on our visit, which led to some sloppy service (to be fair, they did warn us of the situation in advance and were quick to make amends).A very pleasant cafe during the day, turns into an restaurant in the evening. The food is nicely presented but nothing special. The simple puddings (a green ginger parfait, and a white chocholate mouse) were the definite highlight of the meal for us. We were there for a two-eat-for-the-price-of-one promotion, which was excellent value (excluding wine, fourteen pounds a head for three substantial courses). However, if the prices on the menu hold during the rest of the year then you're looking at twenty eight per head which seems a little pricey for what it is. Despite these concerns and the unexceptional food The Hub has lot going for it: we had no problem booking a seat at short notice on Friday night, there's no "sittings" system in operation, the tables are well spaced, the staff don't rush you and there some comfy sofas around to flop into for coffee. Busy italian which avoids feeling too crowded on account of being a rambling series of interconnected rooms occupying most of a block besides Leith Walk. This made it a good choice for the office party season, as the big groups have their own spaces. Pasta and pizzas are good, the monstrous seafood platter being especially impressive. However we were slightly annoyed by the lack of the advertised chillis on a Pizza Diablo, for which we were given two different explanations ("we've run out" and "we find most people don't like chillis") by two different people. While this isn't in the same league as another establishment's attempt to serve us an anchovy-free Salad Nicoise, it is irritating when places don't tell you about such changes and give you a chance to pick something else. There is now also a branch of Vittoria on George IV Bridge too, but we haven't tried it.Grim looking Italian. Convenient for a quick pizza before or after visiting one of the cinemas in the area, but has little else to recommend it.You wouldn't suspect it from the outside, but the front of this apparently small and cosy little Italian opens out into a cavernous main dining area, no doubt intended to cater to the hordes flocking to the Playhouse Theatre opposite. Unexceptional pasta, soggy pizza.Unexceptional pizza and pasta in a closely packed, brightly lit restaurant. You won't be surprised to learn it's one in a small chain (Ciao Roma). If you're the kind of person who likes a side order of chips with their pizza while a tinny radio blares pop music at you, you'll probably be in your element. The desserts were probably the best bit: a nice big chunk of Tiramisu and a very lemony lemon sorbet. And at least it's handy for the Filmhouse cinema.Not so good places.La Collina has long been a favourite on MK Reviews and a group of us paid the family run restaurant a visit on a Saturday evening. When you arrive, you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is a restaurant as it is hidden towards the back, situated in a large conservatory.We sat on the comfortable sofas near the bar and chatted away while we made our selections from the extensive menu. After placing our orders the waiting staff returned shortly afterwards, took our glasses and carried them through to the restaurant for us.I started with a relatively simple yet tasty dish - Mozzarella Impanata which is Mozzarella in breadcrumbs with a homemade sweet chilli dip. This was very tasty and not too heavy - a pleasant way to start.All the other guests had opted for the Freshly Baked Ciabatta Bread & Marinated Olives, with an extra virgin olive oil & balsamic vinegar dip. The olives were incredibly popular! My partner predictably ordered her favourite pasta dish for her main course – the Fresh Egg Tagliatelle con Rucola - with olives, sundried tomatoes, spring onions, & capers finished with olive oil, rocket, parmesan shavings & toasted pine nuts. This choice of pasta has everything! This is a colourful dish that has an abundance of flavours that combine brilliantly. Not only is this a healthy meal, it is incredibly light and amazingly fresh.My choice was the Agnello Arrosto. Roast rack of lamb, served pink with Italian beans & pancetta stew on a rosemary potato rosti. For those who enjoy their meat dishes, this is a real treat. The lamb is perfectly cooked and sits proudly on a large, tasty and well seasoned rosti. The Italian beans and pancetta stew prove the perfect accompaniment. I loved the way the lamb was prepared and couldn’t get enough of the rosti. Delicious!One of the guests opted for a fish dish – the Filletto di Salmone. Pan seared fillet of salmon served with crispy marinated vegetables, crushed new potatoes & a fresh herb dressing. This main course of fish will make you go “wow” when it is served to your table. A very pretty and well presented main course, the salmon is delicious with a dash of the herb dressing. The crushed new potatoes are to die for. You will immediately taste the freshness in every mouthful and whilst the powerful flavours of the salmon are allowed to shine through, the marinated vegetables and potatoes prove the perfect side-kick and they work together as one.The popular Pizza Della Casa was our other guest’s choice. Tomato pizza topped with parma ham, rocket & parmesan shavings.This is an amazing looking pizza from La Collina that really gets the taste buds flowing. La Collina serve some of the best pizzas you can have, and the Della Casa is no exception. They have recently received a Gold Star Award for the quality and use of fresh and authentic Italian ingredients in their pizzas. They are reasonably priced too.The restaurant has a cosy feel to it – the red vertical blinds give it a feeling of warmth. There is plenty of room between diners and we found the staff to be efficient but not intrusive. When a group of you are dining there can be nothing worse than one of the guests be slightly disappointed with their dish – especially if you are so taken by your own choice. Here at La Collina though, we all sat there simply delighted with our choices and the quality of our food. This somewhat inevitably, means you enjoy the occasion all the more. We ordered some more wine and whilst some of us struggled to find room for dessert, I could not resist the choice of Amaretto & Cantucci Biscotti Cheese Cake. This is one of the most popular desserts from La Collina. It is incredibly light with a delightfully crispy biscuit base. It was so good in fact, that I was not in the mood to share!There are very few independent Italian restaurants in the area so if you’re in the mood for pasta or pizza, or indeed an authentic Italian dish – then La Collina is right up there on the ‘must try’ list. We loved it!The Italian deli Valvona & Crolla is a great Edinburgh tradition. The café seems less exciting than when it first opened - we feel it is less consistent and perhaps other places have caught up too. See its listing under Favourite Food Shops. Just by Harvey Nichols, V&C's town centre restaurant and cafe has served us some good meals, but we do get the feeling too that somebody needs to be keeping more of an eye on standards. The food in the restaurant is not necessarily complicated, but well-executed Italian dishes made simply from really good ingredients. Not cheap, but very good. The wine list is excellent, with relatively reasonable mark-ups so one can drink pretty well too. There is a good range by the glass too, with open bottles preserved by a high-tech inert gas system. The cafe on the ground floor is good for a quick snack and a glass of wine or just a coffee. Italian Cafe serving a range of mainly simple dishes (pizzas, etc) and a few hot dishes of the day. We have heard the occasional moan from friends but when we have gone we have had usually had a good meal. A dish of grilled butterflied Langoustines on our last visit was delicious.
Very serious, rather expensive, but very high-quality Italian food. There is a cafe area too with less ambitious food at more reasonable prices. Thisis another place we have not visited for a while and so are not sure how it is doing these days. Victor and Carina of Centotre now have a Cafe in Stockbridge. The food can be pretty good, but the quality is a bit mixed. Beware of Italian restaurants in Edinburgh; it is mostly overcooked, supermarket pasta with regulation Brit-Ital sauces. One that stood out a bit from the crowd was Librizzis but we haven't been there for a good while. Beyond this, Hanover Street has a mass of pizza and pasta joints serving the usual cliches to about the usual, poor standard. It worries me sometimes when I mention Sapori to friends and they seem unsure where this wonderfully authentic Italian restaurant is situated. So before I share an amazing dining experience with you, it’s worth pointing out that Sapori is on your left just as you approach Woburn on the Leighton Road.We have visited this restaurant a few times before, including on a Valentines night, and whilst this is certainly a great venue for intimate dining, it is also ideal for any occasion, whether it be for a birthday celebration or a business meeting where you might be keen to impress your clients.We had booked our table a week earlier and every day my partner and I would say to each other - “Sapori on Saturday!” in eager anticipation of returning to this cute little venue. As we took our seats, it was reassuring to the see the waiting team led by the same young lady who had first served us almost two years ago when we visited Sapori for the first time. With ambient lighting, soft music in the background, and an incredibly enticing menu before us, we readied ourselves for what would hopefully prove the perfect dining experience.
We started with a glass of Prosecco before ordering a bottle of Vernaccia di San Gimignano D.O.C. (£25). Varieties of Vernaccia are rapidly becoming a favourite wine of ours. Renowned for being fresh and crisp, this particular wine was no exception. Easy drinking, it accompanied our meal perfectly. At Sapori you will almost certainly not struggle to find an abundance of quality wines on the menu. My partner started with the Gamberoni aglio timo e Pinot Grigio £8.50. Shelled king prawns sauteed with fresh thyme, and simmered in a Pinot Grigio sauce with a touch of garlic. This is a mouth-watering dish. Simply presented with five large juicy King Prawns circling a plate, this dish is made all the more exceptional because of the amazing sauce. The prawns were exquisite – incredibly succulent and perfectly seasoned.I started with a ‘Special’ of Calamari, served with a garlic and butter sauce and a salad garnish. This was a classic dish that arrived with slices of lemon on the side. Calamari can sometimes be tough – but these had an incredibly light batter, were cooked just right and tasted sublime once drizzled with lemon.Another special of Agnello (£16.95) caught my eye on the ‘Specials’ board. When we looked around the restaurant it appeared many people were doing the same because this main course of lamb cutlets on a bed of mash with a rosemary and garlic sauce was incredibly popular. This looked wonderful on the plate, and tasted amazing. The sauces in Sapori are out of this world and they make very good dishes brilliant ones. The rosemary and garlic sauce was delicious, but in no way did it overpower the dish. The array of subtle flavours was Italian cuisine at its very best. The lamb was served pink, and I enjoyed every mouthful. There was a lot of meat and because I enjoyed it so much, I paid little attention to the vegetables at first. But once I did turn my attention to some of the carrots, I was amazed at their freshness and how they were perfectly cooked – still full of flavour; they possessed a gorgeous texture that needs to be tasted to be believed. How do they do it I wondered? What was becoming very evident about the food at Sapori was how even the simplest of ingredients like carrots were cooked so very well. My partner also opted for a ‘Special’ – the ‘Vitello’ - veal, with sautéed potatoes, with a garlic, rosemary and black pepper sauce. The veal was tender with a melt-in-the-mouth texture that was complimented by slices of San Daniele Ham (a superior version of Parma ham). Yet again, the sauce was amazing. We moved quickly onto our choice of desserts and somehow, things just got better! My choice of Torta Alformaggio – toffee and vanilla cheesecake was definitely a sweet to die for!  This cheesecake was deep, with an amazingly light texture, drizzled with just the right amount of delicious toffee sauce. I wish I had not asked my partner to try some because despite loving her own dessert, she helped herself to a few more mouthfuls of my cheesecake than I expected her to – much to my displeasure! Her choice of Coppa Difrutta (a fruit cup in English) was a very pretty dish. Delicate and full of fresh strawberries and raspberries, it proved totally refreshing. The staff at Sapori are incredibly on the ball when it comes to talking about the food they are serving. Not once did any question we ask receive a delayed response (you know what I mean – when the waiter replies, “Er, this is er, yes, er, actually, let me go and check with the Chef.”) Their knowledge of food, where it is sourced and how it is prepared was quite impressive. In conclusion, it is somewhat hard to pick holes in the food. Every aspect of our dining experience was memorable for all the right reasons from start to finish and Sapori is a must try for anyone who adores authentic Italian cuisine.The Zizzi brand has been around for ten years now, so it’s fair to say that they should know what they are doing. We decided to pay their restaurant situated in the Theatre District a visit. The first thing we noticed when we walked through the door was the chefs! They were busy at work and could be seen tossing dough in the air in the open kitchen which has a huge pizza oven against the back wall. An open kitchen always adds that little extra to your dining experience. The restaurant walls are painted in a rustic cream colour, the tables chunky and wooden. There are many Italian vases and jars of ingredients around the room which is situated over two floors. Our table had chunky chairs on one side and a booth on the other side giving us extra comfort. Andre, Tony and Aja served our table throughout the evening. Zizzi believe in working as a team and look after their guests which they did here; making us feel relaxed and comfortable. When our order was being taken they acknowledged our comments and always repeated the order back to us making sure it was correct. We were also asked our names at the beginning of the evening. Tony in particular called us by name when delivering our food and taking our orders, this was a nice touch which is surely not easy to do in a busy restaurant? The staff certainly helped in creating a vibrant yet relaxing atmosphere with lots of laughter and conversation. Because of the obvious attention they give to all their diners, we will be returning to this particular Zizzi very soon. We started with the mixed olives (£2.35) which were coated with herbs and chilli. The Zizzi website describes them as emerald like, firm textured flesh with a nutty flavour. They are right! They were eaten within minutes of sitting on our table. My guest and I then shared the Arancini (£4.95) which is new on the menu. These are made from risotto, coated in breadcrumbs, mozzarella, grana padano cheese and some peas all rolled into 3 balls. I selected this starter as is looked and sounded gooey and full of flavour. I was pleased with my choice – this dish was both mouth watering and unique. The balls came with a tangy tomato sauce on the side that just needed some more chilli. I added this myself with the chilli oil that was on our table - job done. Zizzi do not sell dough balls but they do sell dough sticks (£3.75). I believe the price is a little steep for what you get which is about 8 sticks flavoured with infused garlic and rosemary served with a garlic and basil dip. Some of the sticks were soft and some were hard. I could not really taste the promised flavours and to be honest these were all quite bland. The restaurant ran out of dip so we were given plain mayonnaise which did not help.My guest then chose the Strozzapreti pesto rosso (£8.75). This is a sautéed, slightly spiced chicken whipped up with crème fraiche, red pesto and springs onions partnered with twirly pasta. My guest does not really like spring onions so these were removed. The dish was of a good size and well worth the money. The pasta was crispy on the out side and gooey in the middle. There was plenty of sauce and the dish was well seasoned. The Strozzapreti was also piping hot on this cold winter’s evening. I was looking forward to trying the pizza because we had heard all about the Rustica variety that is unique to Zizzi. This pizza is unlike any other because it is far bigger, thinner and crispier. This gives the customer more room for more toppings. This particular pizza is an extra £1.95 but well worth the price. I chose the Sofia with ingredients that included a gorgeous spicy chicken, my favourite pepperoni, a flavoursome roasted sausage which was crisp on the edges, tomato and mozzarella. This was also topped with green chilli and fresh rosemary (£9.25). The pizza arrived on a wooden board that looked as though it had just been chopped off a tree. My guest and I were gobsmacked by the size of this dish. The pizza was so good and filling so tasty that we took half of it home in a pizza box which actually had little room left because the pizza was so big. At this point we were incredibly full and our left over pizza and pasta were already on our table in a brown paper bag ready to take home. After a 15 minute break we ordered the panettone al forno (£5.35) and the torta cioccolata (£4.85). The pannettones takes up to 15 minutes to bake so that gave us some much needed breathing space. This dish was invented in Milan and is a fluffy, hot bread pudding topped with cinnamon ice cream. This is incredibly filling so I struggled to finish it. I honestly did not notice that the menu stated the dessert was great for sharing. Oops! The hot bread worked extremely well with the chilled ice cream. The torta cioccolata is thick, chocolaty, rich and comes with vanilla mascarpone. This is a dessert for dark chocolate lovers. We had a great evening and food was reasonably priced. The large size of the portions stood out. We left feeling looked after and enjoyed the entire experience.If you have seen adverts in the local press for The George Inn, there’s a good chance your first instinct will be that this is a “pub somewhere near Woburn.” If you pay a visit and eat in their restaurant, you’ll soon realise that this is no ordinary pub. Nor you will probably feel like you are in a pub at all once sat in their cosy restaurant which offers a taste of Italy. This is quite a unique dining experience, with the option to have a drink at the front of the house next to a pool table, or make your way to the back where you will find a delightful and inviting conservatory. Welcome to The George Inn, one of the few independent Italian restaurants in Milton Keynes. My guest and I decided to have a drink in the bar area first and make our menu choices here rather than wait to be seated. This allowed us to have a relaxing drink and take our seats when our food was almost ready. All menus are freshly prepared at The George, so be willing to wait for your food to be cooked. I started with the Oven baked field mushrooms, stilton, parma ham and toasted pinenuts (£4.95). This dish is full of flavour, incredibly fresh and all the ingredients combine to perfection to create an immensely tasty dish. The stilton has a real kick to it. My guest looked on enviously at this well presented starter but I was not in the mood for sharing. There could not have been a greater contrast between this starter and that of my guest’s who plumped for the Scallops baked in shell, with lemon grass, chilli and smoked bacon (£6.95). This was not the sexiest dish in the world to look at and whilst the scallops had a lovely texture, more of everything was required to bring this starter to life. For mains I opted for Porcini Ravioli (V) with garlic mushroom dressing (£11.95). My guest opted for the Tiger Prawns Linguini, cherry tomatoes, French beans chilli, garlic and parsley butter (£12.95). My ravioli was simply out of this world. Incredibly tasty for a dish of this type, the pasta was fresh and melted in the mouth and the dressing was to die for. With plenty of Portobello mushrooms, this was a first class dish that really did offer that taste of Italy. I would put this down as a “must have” for anyone who likes Italian food. My guest’s Linguini was also very well received. With plenty of generously sized prawns that were very meaty in texture, crunchy beans and tomatoes that popped when bitten into, this colourful dish offered everything. Another outstanding course that we would happily recommend. My guest opted for the selection of cheese and biscuits (£5.95) to finish and our only criticism here was that we did not know what cheeses would arrive. I opted for the Chocolate Bomb, chocolate ice cream and chocolate sauce centre with real Belgian chocolate coating (£4.95). As a self-confessed chocoholic this dessert was never likely to disappoint and this was a more than enjoyable conclusion to my meal. The George is a traditional looking pub with a small bar at the main entrance and various seating available for those just wanting a quick drink or a snack. The restaurant is situated in a large conservatory to the back with approximately fifty covers. There is a massive contrast from the pub side to the conservatory which looks and feels like a restaurant. With the blinds pulled half way, there is an almost homely feel about the place. Visiting anywhere on a Monday is probably not the best time to judge the atmosphere of any location but this is definitely a “friendly” place with welcoming locals and is the place to go and relax and simply enjoy good company. You could not fault the service that came with a genuine and glowing smile. The team at The George know their food and what they are serving. Prompt and attentive, with impeccable timing if you needed anything, we left a tip on top of the normal service charge because we had enjoyed our meal so much.If you have seen adverts in the local press for The George Inn, there’s a good chance your first instinct will be that this is a “pub somewhere near Woburn.” If you pay a visit and eat in their restaurant, you’ll soon realise that this is no ordinary pub. Nor you will probably feel like you are in a pub at all once sat in their cosy restaurant which offers a taste of Italy. This is quite a unique dining experience, with the option to have a drink at the front of the house next to a pool table, or make your way to the back where you will find a delightful and inviting conservatory. Welcome to The George Inn, one of the few independent Italian restaurants in Milton Keynes. My guest and I decided to have a drink in the bar area first and make our menu choices here rather than wait to be seated. This allowed us to have a relaxing drink and take our seats when our food was almost ready. All menus are freshly prepared at The George, so be willing to wait for your food to be cooked. I started with the Oven baked field mushrooms, stilton, parma ham and toasted pinenuts (£4.95). This dish is full of flavour, incredibly fresh and all the ingredients combine to perfection to create an immensely tasty dish. The stilton has a real kick to it. My guest looked on enviously at this well presented starter but I was not in the mood for sharing. There could not have been a greater contrast between this starter and that of my guest’s who plumped for the Scallops baked in shell, with lemon grass, chilli and smoked bacon (£6.95). This was not the sexiest dish in the world to look at and whilst the scallops had a lovely texture, more of everything was required to bring this starter to life. For mains I opted for Porcini Ravioli (V) with garlic mushroom dressing (£11.95). My guest opted for the Tiger Prawns Linguini, cherry tomatoes, French beans chilli, garlic and parsley butter (£12.95). My ravioli was simply out of this world. Incredibly tasty for a dish of this type, the pasta was fresh and melted in the mouth and the dressing was to die for. With plenty of Portobello mushrooms, this was a first class dish that really did offer that taste of Italy. I would put this down as a “must have” for anyone who likes Italian food. My guest’s Linguini was also very well received. With plenty of generously sized prawns that were very meaty in texture, crunchy beans and tomatoes that popped when bitten into, this colourful dish offered everything. Another outstanding course that we would happily recommend. My guest opted for the selection of cheese and biscuits (£5.95) to finish and our only criticism here was that we did not know what cheeses would arrive. I opted for the Chocolate Bomb, chocolate ice cream and chocolate sauce centre with real Belgian chocolate coating (£4.95). As a self-confessed chocoholic this dessert was never likely to disappoint and this was a more than enjoyable conclusion to my meal. The George is a traditional looking pub with a small bar at the main entrance and various seating available for those just wanting a quick drink or a snack. The restaurant is situated in a large conservatory to the back with approximately fifty covers. There is a massive contrast from the pub side to the conservatory which looks and feels like a restaurant. With the blinds pulled half way, there is an almost homely feel about the place. Visiting anywhere on a Monday is probably not the best time to judge the atmosphere of any location but this is definitely a “friendly” place with welcoming locals and is the place to go and relax and simply enjoy good company. You could not fault the service that came with a genuine and glowing smile. The team at The George know their food and what they are serving. Prompt and attentive, with impeccable timing if you needed anything, we left a tip on top of the normal service charge because we had enjoyed our meal so much. Once seated we opted for some freshly baked Ciabatta bread served with olive oil (£2.45) and marinated olives (£1.95). I would rather have seen the bread sliced, but my guest pointed out that breaking it apart ourselves was “more fun” and on reflection, they were probably right. My guest ordered the Insalata, baby spinach, cherry tomatoes, cucumber, avocado, grana padano cheese and freshly toasted crutons (£3.95) and requested this without mushrooms. Despite the long list of ingredients, this dish was on the bland side and was described as “a little boring.” Not a great start maybe, but I was pleased with my own choice, the Mushrooms Al Forno, baked mushrooms stuffed with mozzarella, grana padano cheese, chopped mushrooms, onions, garlic and breadcrumbs served with a garlic mayonnaise (£4.75). The mushrooms, served piping hot, were soft and juicy and bursting with flavour. There was ample garlic mayonnaise, and the coolness of this with the sizzling mushrooms made for an enjoyable introduction to food at Ask.
For mains I was keen to try a pizza. After looking for something spicy I was slightly disappointed until my eyes met with the Versuvio (£8.35). This is a new addition to the menu, spicy pepperoni, roasted red peppers, and fresh red chillies, on a base flavoured with red chilli flakes. I initially thought this would be a little too spicy but my guest told me to “go for it!” This is another tasty dish, with a thin and crispy base and plenty of pepperoni. Was it hot? Let’s just say I would strongly recommend a bottle of water to accompany this pizza. Please note I said “bottle” – I very much doubt one glass of water will do the job! My guest chose a dish from the “Specials” the Risotto con Asparagi e Piselli (£8.95), creamy traditional Italian Risotto made with butter, cream, grana padano cheese and white wine, finished with asparagus spears, peas and parsley. The asparagus was laid in the form of a cross on top of the risotto and my guest commented that this was “beautifully presented”, proceeded to go very quiet and finished the lot! Onwards to dessert but both struggling to find the room, it has to be said the choices are not inspiring but sometimes the menu does not do the food justice. We both opted for the cheesecakes; my guest the Lemon and Mascarpone Cheesecake (£4.95) and myself, the Honeycomb Cheesecake (£4.25). Both were deep with quite thin bases. My base was tastier and crunchier than the Lemon and Mascarpone but was incredibly sweet, creamy and quite light. My guest’s cheesecake was amazingly refreshing, zesty and not too rich. All in all, a better end to our meal than a glance to the menu suggested. Ask almost has a café feel to it with an open frontage, and lots of square table with minimal decoration throughout. The bar is the most attractive feature and it is always nice to be able to see the chefs busy at work cooking your food. Unlike many chain restaurants, there is space to dine in comfort, but this is not the place to go for a romantic meal. Unfortunately I would say this establishment is noisy as opposed to buzzing. Because it is so noisy - you can see people leaning forwards to hear each other; this does make you wonder why music is necessary. This was however, still a pleasant experience, with a mixture of families, groups, youngsters and the more mature clientele, this is a place for anyone and everyone. The service at Ask was very much a team effort and the staff were eager to please. Having so many different waiters tending to your table does take away the personal touch, but it worked surprisingly well. Making minor adjustments to our menu choices and omitting certain ingredients was not a problem.When you’re looking to eat out and treat the kids on a Sunday, it would seem at least half of Milton Keynes has only one venue in mind. As we approached the busy restaurant floor of Red Hot World Buffet & Bar in the Theatre District, there was hardly a spare seat in the house. Almost all the tables had a family occupying every inch of space available. Thankfully, the four of us (my partner and her two boys of 13, and 18) had booked a table. As we approached our seats we couldn’t help but notice the lively music and the buzz from literally hundreds of diners enjoying their meals – welcome to the party! A subtle but welcome change to the table settings at Red Hot sees two sets of cutlery provided per diner. If the waiter clears your plate and happens to take your knife and fork too; at least there’s a back up in place! The boys rushed off to the buffet area and although the youngest had problems communicating with the ‘Live’ Noodle Bar, he eventually returned with his choice of chicken and noodles in a barbeque sauce. This is a favourite of his and at this stage he neglected to sample the Children’s Bar (with burgers, chips, chicken nuggets and more) unlike the adult on the table next to me! This particular buffet is currently only available during the school holidays but judging by the number of grown ups getting stuck in; you sense it will be here to stay.here are two pizza express’s in Milton Keynes we decided to book a table for two at the ‘original’ Express for 8pm (Midsummer Boulevard) on a Thursday. Midsummer Express has been around for a number of years; keeping it’s standards high and making regular menu changes. As always we were seated swiftly in a modern surrounding. The lighting in the restaurant is subtle and dimmed to create a romantic setting. The artwork is eye-catching with lots of character. There is a function room down stairs, which can be booked for private parties all year long. Comedy nights happen here once a month. Keep an eye on their website for up-to-date details. The décor could be modernised but this is only our opinion. I started with the caesa salad £4.10, which arrives with Cos lettuce, grana padano (an Italian cheese), anchovies, croutons and creamy Caesar dressing. There’s not much to say about this dish apart from it was light, well portioned and opens the pallet ready for any main selection - mine being the Salsiccia pizza £9.45 – meaty Italian sausage, sweet yellow peppers and tangy red onions from Tropea (Southern Italy). In my opinion sausages always taste nice on pizza and this was no exception, I asked my waiter for mushrooms and for my pizza to come as a calzone. This was not a problem having my pizza freshly made by the in-sight chefs, folded and then cooked. Calzone stays hotter for longer than a regular rounded pizza. Give it a try! My guest raves about the cannelloni £7.95, so again ordered this wonderful dish, rolls of pasta filled with creamy ricotta and gooey spinach make this dish a splendid choice. No starter for him but he did have the 6 dough balls £2.30. We shared a Cheese cake £4.35 - baked cheese cake and sour cream on a crumbly base served with fruit coulis. We also had Tiramisu £4.35 – Italian for “pick me up”, espresso coffee, cocoa, rich cream, mascarpone and marsala sponge fingers. This was a generous portion, fluffy and simply scrumptious. Our waitress did not show too much personality but was prompt and efficient and we were left to our own devices. The restaurant had a steady flow of customers, creating a reasonably lively yet relaxed atmosphere which was aided by the jazz music playing away in the background. I felt like a local to the restaurant and found it easy to relax. We attended a taster day at Strada some time ago and still remember the plates arriving through the kitchen doors displaying a variety of fine dishes including risottos, baked flavoursome pastas and the most appealing cuts of steak. Strada love to use the finest Italian virgin olive oils and meats in their ever packed menu. We were excited to see if they came up trumps against the other restaurants in the area. Complimentary filtered water was placed on our table which added a nice yet convenient touch as you are always left wanting something to quench your thirst at the end of your meal. I went for a glass of Chardonnay San Simone, Friuli Grave (£6.30 250ml). An unoaked Chardonnay which concentrates on a smooth, rounded texture with bright apple and melon fruit and just some hints of spiced honey and fresh cream. This was delightfully smooth. My guest opted for the excellent Pinot Grigio Blush, Giacondi, Veneto (£6.50 250ml) a fresh and light strawberry fruit with a hint of creaminess. We enjoyed a generous portion of garlic bread with rosemary (£3.75) whilst we pondered the menu. The garlic was light and combined well with the rosemary whilst the bread was fresh and warm. Carpaccio di manzo (£5.75), thinly sliced cured beef with rocket, lemon, parmesan shavings and extra virgin olive oil and Polenta con funghi (£4.95) was my choice of starter. My guest opted for the grilled parmesan polenta with sautéed chestnut mushrooms in a mascarpone, garlic, marjoram, porcini & cream sauce. The beef looked delicious, was a good sized portion and was full wonderful flavours and textures that played off against each other to form an amazingly tasty starter. I decided to go for something a bit different from the typical Italian generic. I decided to try the Saltimbocca di maiale (£12.95), fillet of pork with sage and prosciutto with potato purée, green beans and a white wine, sage and butter sauce. This was absolutely mouth watering and although I am not usually a fan of pork, this was so tender and juicy that I cannot wait to return to Strada and order this again. My guest predictably chose the Rigatoni speck e gorgonzola (£9.25), rigatoni with gorgonzola, parmesan and cream sauce, finished with northern Italian smoked mountain ham and rocket. I sampled this dish and whilst it was tasty, the cheese was a touch overpowering and did not want to allow any of the other flavours to shine through. For dessert I was disappointed to find the Pesca e Amaretti (£4.95), baked peaches with vanilla mascarpone and crumbled Amaretti biscuits were sold out. Instead I opted for an Italian classic, the Panettone al forno (£4.95), warm panettone bread and butter pudding with vanilla ice cream and caramel sauce, which was a commendable substitute for the peaches. My guest had a reliable and popular favourite Fondente al cacao, a warm melting chocolate pudding with vanilla ice cream. This looked totally delicious with the oozing chocolate centre and this dessert really hit the heights with my guest. Strada are renowned for their décor. This restaurant takes a modern twist on contemporary dining with low red lighting and subtle music, it was quiet enough to be refined yet not too exclusive that you couldn’t relax and unwind. There is an outdoor seating area, and despite the fact that it was heated, we did not feel brave enough to chance this on a very cold January evening. The staff were very attentive and friendly and offered me a seat at the bar with a drink before my guest arrived. Strada is a chain, but I was pleasantly surprised at how knowledgeable the staff were. Right now, service is of paramount importance like never before and for this reason we expect Strada to prosper where others may falter. Our food came out quickly and polite enquiries were made at regular intervals to see if all was satisfactory. An optional service charge of 12.5% is added to the final bill. The restaurant was quite busy with an appealing ambience. The lighting and music make an ideal setting for a romantic meal with a partner but Strada also has a classy and modern setting that makes this the perfect venue for catching up with friends. The bar area adds to the buzzing and lively atmosphere. My guest and I really enjoyed our first, and definitely not our last Strada experience. We both left with smiles on our faces. Yes, Strada do come up trumps!There are some fine restaurants in Milton Keynes but there is a dearth of very good Italians in the area. The re-opening of Al Tamborista in Stony Stratford however, goes a long way to filling that void. It would be difficult to find a better looking establishment than this. It is incredibly inviting with its oak panelled walls and immaculately set tables. For those of you who might want to give this restaurant a try but will need to drive, why not make a night of it and stay in their hotel? The stone façade to Hotel Different Drummer has not changed since 1743 and through a cute side door you will find Al Tamborista. My guest started with the Anatra fois gras – fois gras with caramelised apple and brioche. This was a lovely introduction to food at Al Tamborista. The fois gras had a powerful flavour and its buttery texture sat particularly nicely alongside the apple and crisp brioche. I opted for the Pettini con citronella – scallops with lemon grass, ginger and garlic. The scallops are sliced and placed in a line along one side of the plate to create a pretty looking dish. The scallops were perfectly cooked and the lemon and ginger make this a fresh and vibrant starter. For mains I ordered the prosciutto sposatto pollo – chicken breast wrapped in prosciutto with herb roast potatoes, vegetables and red wine sauce. The prosciutto and chicken are a combination made in heaven and I enjoyed what was a tasty and filling main course. The portions at Al Tamborista are generous and you are guaranteed not to leave this establishment feeling hungry! My partner chose the stinco di agnello - lamb shank with a tuscan red wine sauce, roasted vegetables and herb roast potatoes. What makes this dish is the roasted vegetables alongside the lamb and the Tuscan red wine sauce proved a wonderful side-kick. The crème brulee of the day is definitely a must try at Al Tamborista. This version had a hint of grapefruit. Simply delightful, this was an excellent crème brulee with a surprising twist. Alongside the excellent food you will find a service to match. The staff are very friendly and welcoming. They helped us to feel at ease and we never once felt rushed. This restaurant has a real charming feel to it which makes you feel relaxed as soon as you walk through the door. The quiet classical music was in-keeping with the relaxed nature of our dining experience. There was a mixture of diners, from a small group who were celebrating a birthday in style to couples out for a romantic evening. 
We are always left with a good feeling after eating at Julio's. The menu is excellent with varied specials, the staff are friendly and attentive and the food is priced at a decent rate. The early bird menu is very good value for money 
food ok but not much atmosphere and really cold inside. 
Me and my family go regularly to julios, been here again and again and never had an average meal, really nice place, great food, and the staff are always friendly 
Friendly staff, great food, wine and service. Must try this restaurant 
Julio's is a basement restaurant and I automatically assumed that it would be dark and dingy, but I walked in and it had a lovely atmosphere, really good service and delicious food. I would definately recomend! 
atmosphere generous helpings.good, varied menu good value for money 
Visited Julios in Halifax pre a theatre booking. Julios provide an early bird menu as well as their normal menu. The food was well presented and tasty and the staff were well mannered and attentive. I have never been before but after reading other reviews on Trip Advisor decided to go. Will definitely go again
Enjoyed another fabulous meal last night at Julios. Took my friend and her 8 year old daughter who had never been before and they loved it. The staff can't do enough for you and even laughed and joked with my friends daughter which made it nice for her. Both had a starter as always garlic mushrooms as they can't be beaten here! Followed by us both having pasta dishes with garlic bread. Absolutely fantastic fresh and the new chips are very much welcomed compared to the fries haha. Even had room to share a pudding and couldn't move after that. Delicious and fantastic as always Julios thank you for a lovely evening. 4+ years of coming to this resteraunt treat as a friend by Julio himself as well as staff and will never tire of this fantastic place. If you have never tried this place you don't know what your missing
My family and I have been visiting Julios now for about two years.It is without doubt the best value for food quality and service in the town. Julio and his staff treat us like friends and we are always made to feel welcome. We have never, in all our visits felt disappointed with any any aspects of the place, it really does deserve the allocades it gets.
We also went to the New Years eve bash and the staff are fantastic joining in with everything and making the night enjoyable.
If you are reading this and have not tried Julios get yourself down there, you are missing out on a real gem
On the recommendation of friends tried Julio's out, found the staff to be friendly and helpful despite the fact that it was clearly a big Christmas party night they gave very good service. The food although not exotic was very acceptable and the pizzas some of the best I have seen. I shall certainly return - in particular for the pizza and would recommend it to others, a very pleasant evening. 
Went to julio's new years eve,what a great night,food fabulous as always,the staff was out of this world so attentive and so funny,it was worth every penny,well done to the staff at julio's you seem to love the job you do,
i visited the restaurant with my partner and family 23rd December. on arrival at the restaurant /bar area we was welcomed by the owner, julio him self. from that moment we all felt welcomed and comfortable. there was no rushing us through, and was asked if we would like to have a drink before going to the table,very relaxing. once we went to the table the staff was so helpful and friendly but not in your face.the starters we ordered all came out together and not a minute wait,and wow the food was beautiful, every one complimented on their food. the main meals also came together and nothing a miss. this food was exceptional not one member of the family complained about 1 thing. well all i can say is the atmosphere was perfect, and every one of his staff was friendly and helpful, and his food beautiful. I would not hesitate to recommend this restaurant to anyone it was a pleasure to eat there. will definitely be going back regularly. its a must try restaurant especially if stopping at the white swan hotel above. 
Had our staff christmas party here this year. Everyone absolutely loved the food and the atmosphere, and staff were great too. Definitely would recommend Julio's
My wife and I dined here to celebrate our 40th wedding anniversary and were not disappointed. We chose from about 20 different starters, and a wide range of meats for the main course. House wines supplemented a good choice of bottled wines. We were warmly greeted and served attentively all evening. The mouth-watering spare ribs melted off the bone; the veal in a white wine sauce was an epicurean delight. As well as the a la carte menu, Julio offers a 3-course 'Early Bird' menu for 12 pounds 50 (5pm-7pm Sundays and other days no doubt), and although the choice is inevitably restricted, this looked great value. The restaurant is in the basement of the White Swan Hotel in Halifax and we weren't sure if it would be claustrophobic. We need not have worried. The lighting helped to make the room cosy, and the decor was just right for a romantic meal - even after 40 years! Julio the boss was hands-on and he encouraged immediate feedback. It was a pleasure to be able to comment positively on our experience throughout the evening. By 9pm the restaurant was nearly full. For a Sunday evening we felt that this was quite an achievement, though with such smiling service and well-cooked food, perhaps we shouldn't have been so surprised! 
We went here for my wifes birthday last week. We both had a lovely meal and the service was very good. Not bad value for money either. One of the best restaurants in Halifax. 
After trawling the streets of Halifax looking for somewhere to eat, we stumbled upon Julio's. What a find!!! The food was superb, cooked to perfection with very generous portion sizes. The staff were attentive and offered good advise on the dishes, for which there was plenty to choose from. Good wine available too. Would definately recommend to anyone in the area. 
Great service and great food. Been here many times and never had a bad meal. The staff are friendly and work hard to provide great service. 
Went to Juilos on sunday and it was amazing as always. Nothing is ever too much for the staff there. My husband had lasagne and said it was the nicest and most fresh he had tasted. I had steak and asked for a garlic mushroom sauce to be made for me. They had no problems making this for me even though it wasnt on the menu to choose from. This was fantastic although I couldnt eat it all as the steak had to be the biggest id ever seen haha. This isnt overwhelming though as the chips come seperate and you can add them to your plate as and when you like. We also had a garlic bread to share with the main as we usually find when we visit julios we dont need a starter as we get too full from the mains. We also enjoy the fresh hot breads rolls that are complimentry that get put on your table when you arrive. Overall its excellent value for money, excellent attentive staff, lovely atmosphere, warm and comfortable and very clean. My fave resteraunt in Halifax, he remembers what we like and how we like it cooking everytime we go in. Fabulous place have been 20+ times over the years. Keep it up Julios
Have nothing but good things to says about this place.They do two courses for £9.50 or three courses for £12.50 but even though this is competative, they dont scrimp on the quality of what they serve. Staff are great too. All in all, I would certainly recommend this place. 
Went with friends on a Friday evening, staff are friendly and attentive but not over bearing, more of our party turned up than expected and there were no problems seating extra. Some ordered off the evening menu and others ordered off the early bird menu (which is a very good set price). I had garlic mushrooms which were lovely and creamy and plenty of bread provided to mop the sauce, my friend had the garlic pizza bread which was tasty and a large portion. For main I had Filetto Di Medalioni which was gorgeous very tender and massive portion couldn`t manage it all, my friends were pleased with their food. I was so full I couldn`t manage a dessert will leave room next time. I`ve known about this restaurant and walked past it for years and don`t know why it`s took me this long to go in, but glad I did and definately will go back 
Lovely food, excellent choice and the early bird deal is not too be missed. Friendly waiters - nothing is too much trouble! had my husbands 30th party here and just been to a wedding as well. Group parties are no trouble and food served hot and on time. Been back time and time again and would highly recommend. 
Went to Julios on a weeknight and had a lovely evening. The restaurant is comfortable and feels quite cozy, maybe because its below street level. We went for the early bird special in a group and has 2 courses for £9 odd, or 3 for around £13. The choice was good, a set early bird menu or any pizza or pasta from the al a carte menu. Food was lovely the usual dishes you would expect from an Italian. The a la carte menu was pretty well priced, could have asked for a little more choice but it does seem to be quite a small place so I can't hold it against them really. The staff were pleasant and friendly and in all it was a lovely evening for not much money! 
We went to Julio's restaurant with some friends as I had been there before with my husband and really enjoyed it. When we went in, despite it was really busy the waiter greeted us with a smile and took us straight to our table as we asked him to. Food once again was beautiful. I ordered King Prawns for starter and for my main I ordered Sword Fish from the special board, which I thought it was excellent and very good value. Service was great, always with a smile and what I liked the most was that when my friend asked if it was possible to have no mushroom and extra pepperoni in her risotto, the waiter said that no problem as we make everything from scratch. Atmosphere was great. My friends were very impressed with my choice of the restaurant. I would rate this place 10 out of 10 and I would recommend this place to anyone, especially if you want to impress someone. 
My partner and myself won a voucher for a meal at this restaurant and enjoyed every minute of our prize. We will definitely be going there again - even though next time we will have to pay! 
Just been again to julio's with friends ,a birthday do,what a cracking night we had from the minute we went in to leaving,i cant express the friendly service you get enough so attentive,then the meal,we had the early evening menu it was fabulous,i had prawn cocktail and as im not keen on lettuce etc,i asked could i have some other with it,no problem whatever you ask they obliged without question,then i had the barbacue chicken,mmm beautiful,and profiteroles,absolutely stuffed at the end,and all for £12,50 what a bargain,they treated us so well,you come in as strangers and leave as good friends,you will not be dissapointed at julio's ,,thank you leo for a great night see you again very soon. 
This restaurant was very convenient as it was located in the basement of the hotel.I ate there once and would like to have had the opportunity of eating there again.I chose the early bird menu.I really enjoyed their chicken liver pate.I followed this with a seafood pizza.With a drink this came to 10.80.The meal was real value for money.A lot of choice on the menu and very good service. 
As my first time experience in julio's, I think that its one of the best places to dine in halifax. The atmosphere is great and the staff are extremely helpful and friendly. the value on food is quiet reasonable and the food is just DELICIOUS. Definitely going back again and recommending to friends. 
Great value for money and very big portions. . my food was very tasty but my Daughter ordered fillet steak and got a sirloin so she wasn't pleased and we ordered a small rose wine each and the waiter brought us a large by mistake.... he said !! we were only charged for small so not complaining. the restaurant itself is in a cellar with no windows but the deco is very tasteful and the lighting just right cozy, but not too dark. There were a couple of parties in while we were there and all seemed to be enjoying themselves and the waiters/waitresses did not appear stressed by the busyness. I also noticed families with babies and small children and they were provided with high chairs. staff are friendly and helpful... The waiter was very sorry he'd messed up with the steak and this was also reflected in the bill. All in all we enjoyed our evening out at Julio's and would go again. 
Never disapointed with Julios, always fantastic food and service, lovely atmosphere and i would recommend this restaurant to anyone. 10 out of 10! 
We visited the restaurant for the first time on a Friday evening for the early bird menu. The restaurant was very busy so plenty of other people were obviously attracted by the 2 courses for less than £10. The food we had was really very good – portions perhaps on the small side if you’re a big eater but perfectly adequate to be fair. Service was good, just a hiccup with the bill when a glass of wine for the next table was placed on my bill but sorted out with no problems. Certainly a place we shall visit again. 
I went to juleps because I saw the great reviews her on trip advisor! Maybe it very biased or the people below don't have a clue about what they are eating! I went into the restaurant and it very clostrofobic, out dated and dingy! This reflects in the food! I ordered a Brie to share and it took approximately 1 minute to come! This suggests to me the Brie is about a fresh as the interior at julios! Which looks like it was last updated in the 1940s! The pasta I ordered for main was touching average at best and quite obviously the cannelloni is bought pre made and shoved in an oven/microwave for a few minutes!! The service is about as friendly as a punch in the face! The women loves to slam your dish down and your cutlery with no smile or manners! After my main I asked for the bill at the first opportunity because I couldn't stand to be in there any longer! I'm not sure if I have mentioned everything but overall it was a terrible experience! 
I have been going to julio's for a good few years now,i have never been dissapointed,the food is fantastic,and the early evening menu is brilliant good value for your money,,the service is so friendly hence why i keep going back there,you wont be dissapointed . 
been going here regularly for over a year and by far my favourite italian restaurant of all time. the food is spot on, service is excellent, very friendly and welcoming, so if you haven't been before what are you waiting for? you'll wish you'd done it sooner
Went there for first time had a really good evening the food and service were really good can recommend 
Went to the restaurant last week service was quick and the food was good could not fault it at all will recommend 
Flew from Newquay to Manchester and hired a car for a wedding in Halifax. Before we moved to Cornwall 7 years ago, we had eaten at Julio's a few times and we remembered it. Julio was cooking the night we were there. Garlic mushrooms and by special request, he was happy to cook my calamari fritti in a light flour covering rather than breadcrumbs, which implies they are not bought in. These were both good, but my Gamberoni alla Buona Sera was memorable. My husbands Bistecca Dolcelatte was delicious and Julio was happy to swap the sirloin on the menu for a fillet. No room for pudding. When next 'oop country' we will eat there again. Lovely staff and a nice atmosphere. 
I had the stuffed pepper for a starter The presentation and standard of cooking was quite excellent. The Biftecca Dolcelatte was of a similar high standard in terms of presentation and culinary skill - the chef is a master of sauces and is to be congratulated. However, the dish was let down by the inferior quality of the sirloin used, it being tough meat overall with a lot or gristle. It was a shame, because in all other respects this was a good meal. Perhaps the management should look to their supplier. Thanks for the service - it was of a good standard. 
My fiancée and I have been going to Julio's regularly for about the last 3 years. With a fairly good choice of Italian restaurants within easy driving distance of Halifax, we still find ourselves always choosing to go back to Julio's. Having become regulars we have tried most things on the menu, and I can honestly say that we have never ever been disappointed. The specials board is always worth a good look before you see the main menu as well. If you're on a budget, don't be afraid to go for the Earlybird menu.....still a fantastic amount of choice available! Julio and his staff have to be some of the friendliest people I've met, and the service is always amazing! The quality of the food never varies....it's always top notch! My personal recommendation would have to be the Filetto Rossini. I've had this in quite a few Italian restaurants, but Julio's tops the lot! Bravo Julio, your restaurant is definitely our favourite! Excellent value for money as well! 
My partner booked us a table here for valentines.Was quite dissapointed. Food was bland, my pasta dish was not very tasty at all. Service was ok not very attentive. Very average experience. 
Tried Julio's because it was top on trip advisor restaurants in halifax,we we pleasantly surprised the service was yery good and the food was great,my wife had fillet steak with a nice sauce and i tried the calzone pizza a big dish that had a great spicey taste. the only thing i thought let them down slightly was my wifes dish the steak was great but when she ordered chips with it thats all that came with it just chips and the steak, normally with steak and chips you usually get a garnish,however i would stilll recommend you try this place we will be back. 
We ate at Julio's for the first time last night. What a find!! We can't praise the food highly enough and to have coffee that wasn't burnt, as it so often is, was a very pleasant surprise. We will certainly eat there in the future and have already recommended it to a number of our friends. 
I Can honestly say my wife and I have eaten many many times at Julio’s in Halifax we have even had large family parties and Christmas parties there over the past few years and on every occasion both the food and service have been fantastic. If you haven’t already experienced Julio’s do yourself a favour and add it to your New Years resolution list to visit soon you wont be disappointed. 
My wife and daughters visited yesterday evening. I knew the place itself from years back when it used to be a bar. Upon entry (at 18:00) it was quiet with only one table taken but others having a drink at the bar. The initial thought was the place needs bringing up to date quite a bit re: the decor but part of me likes an old style Italian. Anyway, we quickly ordered some drinks and were shown the menus. Front of house was perfect, not pushy and very polite and he explained what the specials were that evening. We ordered our food a few minutes later and were then shown to a nice large table. This was a good thing especially as my kids (8 and 4yrs old) bring half their bedrooms with them so they had plenty of space. Food - lovely homemade bread arrived closely followed by my stuffed pepper starter, pate for my wife and small pizza's (still big) for the kids. All superb and extremely fresh, the filling for my pepper was seasoned very well and a delight to eat. Main courses ordered were Fillet Rossini for me and a pizza for my wife. The fillet was well priced at £16.50 but when it turned up...WOW. The steak was 1.5" thick and huge with a lovely pate on top and a mushroom sauce. It was cooked to medium-rare perfection and simply superb. I had to have a rest towards the end before finishing the thing off. Fantastic and compliments past on to the chef. I reckon that's the best fillet steak in terms of quality and price I've ever had in a restaurant. Bravo Julio's!!! The one minor, minor letdown was the dish of vegatables which were simple cooked potatoes, carrots etc which looked a bit sad. I was surprised by this as the salad with my wife's pate was excellent. Perhaps just some nice sauteed potatoes and green beans for the steak would be better and in fact cheaper fo the chef to prepare? The kids had a share of some chocolate fudge cake to finish but I couldn't manage anything. The bill came to £67 which included a bottle of Prosecco. Superb value as the kids ate for £12 in total which is quite amazing!! We shared the place with only 4 other tables in the end so all I can say is get down there and support a proper authentic Italian restaurant right on your doorstep!
We have been going to Julios now for several months, and rank it right up there as one of our favourite restaurants in West Yorkshire. (and believe me, we have tried lots!) The food is simply fabulous with lots of choice (and the early bird is excellent value for money). You just feel that the staff really cant do enough for you, the service is excellent and if there's anything you want, they will provide it, nothing is too much trouble. Julio is a charming host and all the staff go that extra mile. Whether its a romantic dinner for 2 or a large party, you can't get much better than this restaurant. PS the warm home-made bread rolls brought to your table are simply heavenly (warning: you will eat so many of them there's a real danger you will be full before your meal arrives!!) Once you discover this lovely hidden gem in Halifax I bet you will be totally sold on it - as we are. Hope it continues to thrive and do well, it really deserves to !! 
Was my first time at Julio's as my sister recomended to us, We went to Julio's on friday 26th of march and it was my 40th birthday party. Everything was wonderfull. The service, the food, i still can't belive that all 32 people from our party got all served all at same time! every one was comenting how lovely and great the food was. Very impresive. would recomend this restaurant to anybody. Fantastic place.Thanks to all the staff at Julio's 
We have been regulars to Julio's for several years. The owner, Julio, is always front of house and really knows how to look after customers. Having eaten here numerous times and had nearly everything off the menu, we cannot fault it and never had a bad experience. The veal and steak dishes are great, and there's always fresh fish on the menu including fresh calamari (not the usual rubber stuff most places serve!). The daily early bird menu offers very good value if you want to sample the menu! 
When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes. BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers. I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience. Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one. 
Have been here half a dozen times now over the past two years and it's always been up and down. After the last visit, however, I will not be going back. Mushroom bruschetta was literally mushrooms on toast - no herbs, no chopped onion, not even any seasoning. My pizza base was thick and undercooked and absolutely slathered in tomato paste. The ham topping looked like reformed ham slices that you buy in the fridge at Tesco and were only lukewarm. My largely untouched plate was collected with absolutely no comment. The food of my fellow diners was a little better, but presentation was mediocre and everything looked like it had just been thrown onto the plates with little care or thought. Disappointing. 
We went to the Italian Kitchen on Saturday as a party of 18. I had been and looked at the venue earlier in the day and was slightly worried by the shabbiness of the restaurant, but we all agreed that the food and service were excellent and would definitely go back. 
Firstly - Unfriendly service - waitress was very impatient, tearing off order notes in front of our eyes. Secondly - food was overpriced, tasteless and very basic. A meal deal (about £8) said: salads for starter and chili pasta for main. For salads it was literally 3 leaves of salad in plate with some olive oil... Pasta - not cooked enough and taste was horribly overkilled with garlic chili... Minestrone soup - few small pieces of vegetables floating in water. As London visitors, I think, we were caught in one of those "tourist one-off visiting restaurants"... We've never had such a bad restaurant experience before! 
delicious food, good service, nice people, one of the few restaurants we visited twice. 
very very nice night out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money. 
3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly. 
Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful. The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed. All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu. thoroughly recommend 
Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate! Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice. I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 
I had been to this restaurant with my wife on a Saturday evening. We had tried the 2 course set menu. The ambience is very romantic with candles and very low lighting and it has a very rustic feel reminiscent of rural Italy. I ordered the Pizza which is best avoided (I think I am too used to Pizza Hut pizzas) but the pasta was nice. The place seems to be crowded so book in advance. Expect to spend around 20£ per person. 
First visit to ciao and I would certainly go back again!!! 
Cute little Italian place with a massive menu. Short waits for tables. The food is good and not too expensive, especially for the area of town. 
Service problem, but food was good Overall, I thought the service sytem strange here. Everyone seemed to have a specific task. This can backfire if someone is slacking or forgets. After our meal was done we waited 30 minutes to be asked what we wanted for dessert. the only reason we were asked this was because someone thought we hadnt been served our dinners yet and proceeded to set our table agin for a meal. We told him we were actually waiting to see a dessert menu. The food was good, but there are flaws with the service. Still an okay restarant. probably a rare event. 
A perfect, cosy, family-run Italian. I have eaten in Ciao Roma twice now, went with friends for a birthday a while ago and just have a lovely meal with my partner at the weekend. Both times the food was gorgeous, and the friendly service is so relaxing. The restaurant is warm and cosy, it looks much smaller from the street but opens out with an open kitchen at the back. If you go you have to try some of their home-made Ice Cream-even just buy a tub to take home with you! All in all a great place for a big group (we were in the private dining room) or a relaxed meal for two. 
A nice spot for a generic Zizzi so it' s hard to get too excited. Good sized portions, reasonable prices, family friendly on the weekend (lots of kids). Pizza Express which is close by has tastier pizza but is often packed. Edinburgh has so many one off unique restaurants I'd only recommend this for locals (with a voucher) looking for a hearty pizza or pasta. 
Complete rip-off. Visit at your peril! Took the family to the one in Ocean Terminal. Disinterested staff (see below) - menus thrown at you - trying to sell you starters that you don't want. Overpriced pizza and pastas - asked for extra jalepenos on my pizza, pizza I got back had minimal peppers on it and they charged me an extra 75p! Plates were taken away with no 'how was your meal?' etc. and the waitress then tried to sell us desserts that, by this stage were not wanted, as I had worked out what sort of place this was. Payed by debit card which included a screen which said 'do you want to leave gratuity?'. Have since found out that these payments are kept by the management at zizzi's and not given to the staff, and that zizzi's and other places have a deal with the ... Took the family to the one in Ocean Terminal. Disinterested staff (see below) - menus thrown at you - trying to sell you starters that you don't want. Overpriced pizza and pastas - asked for extra jalepenos on my pizza, pizza I got back had minimal peppers on it and they charged me an extra 75p! Plates were taken away with no 'how was your meal?' etc. and the waitress then tried to sell us desserts that, by this stage were not wanted, as I had worked out what sort of place this was. Payed by debit card which included a screen which said 'do you want to leave gratuity?'. Have since found out that these payments are kept by the management at zizzi's and not given to the staff, and that zizzi's and other places have a deal with the government that they don't have to pay their staff minimum wage as they make it up with tips!!!!!! http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/this-britain/tipping-top-chefs-turn-up-the-heat-869750.html That would explain the waitresses attitude - I'm sorry if I seemed gumpy. A COMPLETE RIP-OFF - VISIT AT YOUR PERIL!
My girlfriend and I frequented this location as it was just a short walk from us when we lived in the West End. We've always had a great experience. Whether it was sitting in or grabbing some pizzas to take away, the staff were always pleasant and friendly. I'm not sure what got DavidDodds so grumpy, maybe he had a rock in his shoe all day, and you know how annoying that can get. I can't speak on where the gratuity goes, but this location is great if you're looking for a tasty meal and a nice relaxed atmosphere. 
Really cosy and pleasant atmosphere inside. Food was delicious, nicest pizza I've had at an Italian restaurant! Staff really friendly and welcoming. Decent price. 
Always extremely busy around dinner time. It isn't unusual to have to wait in a queue for ten minutes before you're seated. LOVE the food at any Bella Italia's restaurant. This one would be even better if it didn't have such a claustrophobic feel to it inside. 
Would be a 5 if there wasn't so much tourist! 
Not impressed with the food at all. Good service. 
Great authentic Italian food with friendly service. Especially love their homemade foccacia, ravioli and desserts. I go there every time I visit Edinburgh. 
I am a self confessed food junkie. I love anything healthy and Italian is one of my favourite cusines.. Centotre is one of the best in Edinburgh. I have been to Italy a good few times in the past and I always struggle to find a place that hits the X with italian cooking- but I've finally found it. They're motto is simple fresh food- it speaks wonders in the food itself. I had the Gnocchi alla sorrentina - which i seriously could die for everytime, it's too good! Followed by a latte - best coffee in town- and torta cioccolato - 70% rich chocolate, every girls dream! I could go on about the menu forever and list ALL of my favourites but those two were recent and I needed to give them a special mention. For anyone who is looking for a place that has atmosphere and is elegant, this should be your new spot! The staff do a great job in catering to all your needs. A great place in Edinburgh. Food Junkie 
This place is brilliant. Great food and authentic Italian. Their homemade ravioli is delicious and they have a lot of their ingredients brought in direct from Milan. I use this place quite often for breakfast meetings and their bacon roll and cappucino is the best in town!! The service is always very helpful and attentive. Also a great place to be seen in. 
Took my parents for a meal before heading to a festival show on the recommendation of a friend. Although it is a nice setting the food was poor quality particularly for the prices charged. One of us had a lasagne which had clearly been microwaved and served up with with a pile of rocket we were charged £14 for this. We joked at the time that we would have been better going wetherspoons in heinsight this was probably true. Furthermore the service was dire, it was a struggle to get a smile out of the waiter. To add insult to injury, he added a sevice charge at the end of the meal. To summarise, avoid and go to tiger lillys or bar roma near by. 
Italian food is without a doubt my favourite...and Centotre is a sweet blessing to Edinburgh's Italian Restaurants. The food is out of this world..highly recommended! 
Service with a smile..and food that makes you smile!! My family and I love Centotre!! 
The Jazz Night in Centre on a Sunday is becoming a weekly tradition for my partner and I. Such a nice way to relax before the week starts again on Monday. Lovely food, lovely staff with a lovely atmosphere. :)
My wife is in love with Centotre - so I do try to take her as much as possible. As we go quite regularly the staff are very friendly towards us and we are always treated like VIP's. One of the best Italians in town! 
Both the service and the food are outstanding !! Such a beautiful restaurant in a fantastic location - I would recommend Centotre to anyone. 
Very very very good classy italian. If service was slightly faster then this would be a one of a kind resturant. 
Does so many little things so very well. 
Rude manager, crap waiting staff. Don't seem bothered. I have had the misfortune of going to this establishment twice, fortunately I only had to eat in it on one occasion. On my first visit around noon on a Monday it seemed to be an awful lot of trouble for the manager/maitre d' to seat a groupd of 12 in an empty restaurant. Then they refused to change the 'wine' to a soft drink on the special offer for the 'non-drinkers'. We decided to leave as a restaurant is not just about the food. Unfortunately I had to go a second time for a post wedding party and again endured rude ignorant staff. This time I also had the opportunity to taste some of their food - eventually. It took 25 minutes for the main course to the last main course to get to the table. After complaining the manager/maitre d' could not see what our problem was. 
Stingy, stingy, stingy For the prices paid Victor, the proprietor, is astonishingly miserly when it comes to both staff pay and staff food. Try working 7 and-a-half hours on two pieces of toast with butter. And if you're a customer thinking that this kind of economizing will be reflected on your bill, you'll be disappointed. 
It is definitely on the pricey side but it's a nice spot for a business lunch or coffee meeting. The staff are fairly laptop-tolerant if you keep ordering lattes. 
“Fantastic Ravioli”. We went here for a late lunch and were very impressed with the food, the fresh homemade ravioli with pumpkin were fantastic. My girlfriend ordered the veal escalopes with spaghetti pomodoro – it was also amazing. Pleasant and friendly service. Lovely restaurant with very high beautiful ceilings and great lighting. 
Great Italian food! 
Good value,nice food and friendly staff 
La Lanterna is one of those places you find a gem I would highly recommend this restaurant. The food and the service was excellent. I had a party of 6 people at this restaurant before going to a show. we picked this restaurant from Google maps and the reviews. I will certainly be back Staff are so friendly and nothing is to much for them‎. 
La Lanterna - Highly recommended Last visit to La Lanterna was 15 years ago and thought I would make a return visit with my husband. The décor hasn't changed much in 15 years but it had the same warm and welcoming atmosphere I remembered. I was delighted that my husband's bruschette more than matched his favourite restaurants and our main and sweet dishes surpassed our expectations. We even managed to watch the penalty knockouts with other customers and staff huddled round a laptop. What a great atmosphere! Toni, Atila and staff thanks for a great night out. We hope it's not as long until our next visit.
VERY HIGHLY RECCOMMENDED I would highly recommend this wonderful resturant. The food and the service was excellent. Very good Italian food. I had a party of 8 people at this restaurant after seeing Les Mis. We do not come from Edinburgh an purely by chance we picked this restaurant. I will certainly be back. Staff are so friendly and nothing is a bother to them 
La lanterna...highly recommend.... highly recommended, by a friend....excellent food, fresh sea food and the tiramisu was to die for..... Never been to a restaurant that I have felt so strongly about... never ever written a review... A really comfortable atmosphere, excellent staff, pleasant, friendly, with the ability guage the type of customer and the amount of interaction they feel comfy with. The hostess, made the effort with all her customers....Helen Henderson..
Absolutely the best food we have had. Everything was perfect.
Absolute top concerning italian pizza. We couldnt get enough!!! 
Went in February for a valentines meal. Had heard good things from a friend and whilst the surrounds are impressive inside, cant help but feel its a false atmosphere. Service wasnt wonderful, restaurant was FAR too warm to the extent i felt sick and was relieved when i left. I ordered a chicken starter which we had to wait some time for and the chicken came raw on the plate. I sent it back, but as it was in a glaze, i felt uneasy about eating it even after getting a new serving. To be fair, the manager came and apologised and removed it from my bill, but for a restaurant aiming for a certain type of clientele, i just found this unforgivable. Felt the prices were fairly steep considering the quality of the food. Wouldnt go back unless going to a function if im honest as the experience was verging on unpleasant. 
Came here for cocktails and had a really amazing time! Never had such a good Cosmo! Saw the food going past... looked so fesh and appetising! Can't wait to eat here with friends! 
Not impressed Unlike the other reviewers on this site, I found that the service was pretty standard, but that the food was below average. I ordered the tuna sashimi (£15.50) accompanied by a coriander salsa and rocket leaves. I must have recieved a very poor cut of tuna, because unlike most tuna steaks. mine was very tough, and was held together by some inedible connective tissue. Another member of the party had no problem with her tuna steak, and when comparing, we just decided I was unlucky. However, the salsa didn't go well with the tuna and had an overpowering taste of onion. The garlic bread was delicious, however, and my friend very much enjoyed his burger. But, in my opinion, I would have to say this place was more style than substance. 
Unhelpful and rude staff Inquired about a booking only to have a business card with telephone number thrown at me by a rude female member of staff. Don't entertain them with your custom. 
My favourite resturaunt spoiled by a rude waitress I used to say I couldnt fault this place......but unfortunately that has changed a little. The food is always absolutely amazing, as is the service, but I recently went there with my fiance on Valentines Day to be met with a bad experience! To start off the night we sat down to a set menu, hadnt been told this on the phone when pre-booking as perhaps that might have changed my mind about going there in the first place. So when the waitress informed us it was set menu only we told her wed have to think about it as we may decide to go elsewhere. She left the table with nothing to say, and just as we were ready to leave she came over with the main menus and quite casually informed us we could order from the main menu. Shouldnt you be able to go to your favourite resturaunt and order anything you want from the menu......regardless of it being Valentines Day? After we ordered food our appetisers were brought out, and we then asked the waitress for a bottle of wine......when she returned ... I used to say I couldnt fault this place......but unfortunately that has changed a little. The food is always absolutely amazing, as is the service, but I recently went there with my fiance on Valentines Day to be met with a bad experience! To start off the night we sat down to a set menu, hadnt been told this on the phone when pre-booking as perhaps that might have changed my mind about going there in the first place. So when the waitress informed us it was set menu only we told her wed have to think about it as we may decide to go elsewhere. She left the table with nothing to say, and just as we were ready to leave she came over with the main menus and quite casually informed us we could order from the main menu. Shouldnt you be able to go to your favourite resturaunt and order anything you want from the menu......regardless of it being Valentines Day? After we ordered food our appetisers were brought out, and we then asked the waitress for a bottle of wine......when she returned to the table there was no attempt to even ask if we wanted to try the wine, and when we said thankyou there was no acknowledgement, as if her service was a given or something? As we ate no attempt was made to check if our meal was okay she just persisted to stalk the tables waiting for an empty plate or glass.........and sighing pretty obviously in the passing!!!! Ive never felt so happy about walking away from a meal having not tipped, and as I left the table my Fiance asked if we could get a single rose as she had layed roses on every other table except ours.........to be told ---Sorry its for people who ate off the set menu only---- Overall a bit gutted, but I will return......lets just hope the rude american waitress doesnt serve us next time??
Absolutely brilliant I found this restaurant through searching for it on my google phone and as it was near to where we were staying we thought we would try it out. The service was spot on and the food was fantastic. A great relaxing atmosphere in a superb location makes it a perfect place for couples or large groups of people. 
a bit disappointed We ate here with our kids twice and were a bit disappointed after the 2nd time, to the extent that we probably won't hurry back. The food was so-so, but the bit that peed us off was that we got stuck in an upstairs backwater even though there were plenty of tables elsewhere - even when we left. This wouldn't have bothered us at all, as we guessed it was cos of the kids and to be honest it's always a bit more relaxing when you know you're not spoiling anyone's meal - but because of where we were we got really poor service - with our initial ordering, then drinks taking forever, and bits missing off the meal - to find a waitress one of us had to traipse up and down stairs through the restaurant etc etc. End result was a crap meal with everyone leaving a bit grumpy. If the food was up to it you would suffer a bit of hassle - maybe - but it was pretty ordinary. 
Truly Amazing Dined on a Monday night and it was devine. Warm welcome, excellent pre dinner drinks and the staff could not do enough to accommodate us. I asked for a quiet romantic part of the restaurant and they obliged by offering me one of the snug seating areas towards the rear of the restaurant. We were able to watch the Chefs cook our meal and the whole atmosphere was sensational. We ordered seafood and I cannot fault it one bit. The Mussels, Sea Bass and Lobster were exquisite not to mention the Valpollicella Red Wine. A lovely place with a lovely atmosphere, not too busy on Mondays but busy enough to feel warm and cosy. Top class restaurant with friendly accommodating staff. Superb for a nice romantic date during the week. 
Gusto I love this restaurant!!! I came here for my 21st Birthday with my boyfriend. The food was great, I had a steak which was the best Ive ever had! We did have to wait a little bit to get a table but I suppose that was our own fault because we didnt book! 
Hannah Ate here on a recent family trip to Edinburgh and the food and service were great. Good value for money, would definatley recommend! 
Not quite as good as the original but still passable. 
Amazing food...the Nutella Calzone is worth going for alone! 
Excellent Meal and service- This is the first time i have eaten in Gusto but i will definitely be returning very soon! The food was great and the service was fantastic. I wasnt sure what to have but the waitress was very helpful and recommended the duck breast on creamed cabbage... amazing! It was a busy night, the place seemed full but we still didnt want for anything for the entire evening. Great food, great wine, great service. Very impresse
Even better now that the restaurant has been refurbished. Looking forward to seat outside next summer. 
Great food, great prices. If you love honest Italian food, this is a nice find. I was taken here by a friend, and we have been back for repeat visits. Your food won't come to your table aflame or with ribbons on it, but it will taste delicious and be fresh. What more do you really need? 
This place isn't anything special, and has spent a lot of money getting to the top of Google and writing false reviews for itself (as well as bad reviews for it's competitors). Fact. Just check their reviews from Feb 2011. Positive reviews for themselves and negative reviews for all other Italian restaurants. 
Very friendly family-owned and run eatery. Staff are very nice. Reasonable prices. 
Always 1st class 
It is what it is....good setting, good service, good food and a friendly atmosphere. I really like this place - it's got the best Antipasto Misto in Edinburgh!! It's enough to share, get bread too!! Tony (the owner) is well known in Edinburgh and has a reputation of knowing what to do and how to do it well. 
Great service and food. always happy to go that little bit further to give the customer what they 
Charming I went here with my lady firend the other day. The portions were generous, and the food very filling. Service was very attentive and efficent. The decor was pleasing and gives you something to look atNow if your aguy looking for a place with options for desert for a date this is the place for you. For the traveller though, the coffee supplied at the restaurant is definetely going to hit the spot. Well recommended 
GREAT FOOD everytime! Love the Pizzas, but try the meat balls! Good service from staff, but book a table if you can. 
Why don't these tired old Italian places wake up - the British know more about Italian cooking nowe, and what it can be. the food is really quite shabby and you could produce something 10 times as good for the prices. 
We went as part of big group and the food was excellent and good value. I want to go back and try it as a couple. 
Overrated This deli may have been good many moons ago (or so I've heard) but it is cashing in on it's reputation rather than providing anything worthwhile-and now has a very bloated ego. I will never set foot in there again. The items are allegedly top quality but the final straw for me was discovering something very unpleasant in some loose tomatoes. the attitude of the staff and manager when I returned with the offending item was blase and somewhat aggressive. The items are ofter poor quality and hugely overpriced. The wine section is laughable. I have heard many poor things about this establishment recently which leads me to believe that the people of Edinburgh are no longer willing to be made fools of. This will always be popular with the (deluded) middle classes, the ... This deli may have been good many moons ago (or so I've heard) but it is cashing in on it's reputation rather than providing anything worthwhile-and now has a very bloated ego. I will never set foot in there again. The items are allegedly top quality but the final straw for me was discovering something very unpleasant in some loose tomatoes. the attitude of the staff and manager when I returned with the offending item was blase and somewhat aggressive. The items are ofter poor quality and hugely overpriced. The wine section is laughable. I have heard many poor things about this establishment recently which leads me to believe that the people of Edinburgh are no longer willing to be made fools of. This will always be popular with the (deluded) middle classes, the 'fur coat nae knickers' brigade and the pretentious. I'm Italian and know a good deli when I see one-and this is not. The cafe should be avoided at all costs. Overly expensive, poor quality and choice, beyond appalling service. Do yourself a favour and find a decent website that will cater for your needs.
Valvona & Crolla Ltd Overpriced and over rated. Had looked forward to our evening meal at Vin Caffe in Multrees Walk having heard good reports but the place was deadly quiet with no ambience and the food was disappointing but expensive nevertheless. Surroundings bland and cold with a very draughty ventilator down one side of the table. Our guests were not impressed. Maybe lunch is better. 
not great , surly waiters and hugely over priced. Kitchens look dirty. 
I `d heard good reports. This is by far my favourite Italian restaurant in Edinburgh and I `ve here on so mary differet occassions, and the atmospher and comfort was good ,The food is outstanding excellent and the staff attentive, friendly and extiemely knowledgeble about the dishes served friendly chefs as well great owner, The wine list superband , fantastic place which I would highly recommed 
Good food... service so-so Food we had there was excellent: sea bass tasted great and swordfish stuffed with mozarella was a treat. Lovely house wine to complement it as well. There was a nice buzz about the place despite it being a Tuesday night after 9. Think we'd have to go back to get a better feel of the atmosphere... our waiter was an unhappy little sausage on the evening we were in. The other guy seemed fine though. 
I visited La Figa last night and I wasn't impressed. The staff was rude and unfriendly, and the food tasted microwaved and was overpriced. Never again! 
best italian food in london in my opinion....tasty,delicious,generous,excellent friendly service....well done...i coould eat there everyday...well done boys... 
Been there few times now & each time the waiters go out their way to accommodate me and my wife and the baby. Definitely would recommend it to any one with your family or with out 
This must be the worst place in the Docklands, rude staff, boring food (you could almost hear the microwave bells from the kitchen) and over priced. Never again! 
I was taken there by a friend, and as an Italian, I was quite offended by the name, it's not funny and it's not clever. But most importantly, the food was awful! How can they call that food Italian? Italian food is about fresh quality ingredients, the food I was served tasted boring and ready-made. 
I went at the end of july and was blown away by the food.....the portions are generous and the price excellent. There was a large party of us (15) so I saw lots of different dishes, they all looked and smelled divine. There was a lot of tasting going on! I had an amazing steak, huge, it was slightly rare for what i'd ordered. The waiter took it away and they cooked me another with no fuss or attitude. I am taking my husband there for his 40th birthday and cant wait to sample more of the menu!!! 
An amazing restaurant in London, i love it, they have a very good chocolate mousse... 
Excellent food and huge portions, staff very attentive and friendly. Would highly recommend. 
I love this place to eat but it is very hidden away! It has wonderful scenery and is just off Narrow Street. Me and my partner eat here regularly and find it great value for money! The food is always excellent and the service is even better! And the place is great for a cocktail or two as they have a bar that serves nibbles! Great place to spend an evening! 
I live nearby and come here regularly.....food is in my opinion amazing, and it is great value for the price. It's super hard to find nice italian food in London...and this is the one that I can only recommend. All waiters are genuine professionals who take their job seriously... . Overall, amazing service, good food, cozy atmosphere... . 
From the mezzanine-level of The Italian, looking south through acres of plate glass, you've got a first-class, bird's-eye view of Rosati across Flinders Lane. There's a nice symmetry to it.

The once-iconic bar-restaurant - set up in late 1986 by Piero Gesualdi and Ronnie di Stasio - almost instantly became the pre-Crash, must-visit, must drink, must eat, must coffee, see and be seen epicentre of buoyant Melbourne.

And it's where The Italian's namesake - Roberto Scheriani - started his career as a waiter.

I don't remember what was opposite Rosati back then, but it wasn't 101 Collins; the corporate Tower of Power didn't see its first tenant until March 1991 and as a young man bussing tables and learning the moves, I doubt Scheriani ever dreamt that one day the most important commercial building in the city would be directly opposite and that he'd have his name on the door of its only - huge - restaurant.

Life's road has taken many of us on an interesting, not always smooth, journey and there have been times - through the rise and fall of Ristorante Roberto and R-Bar - when Scheriani might have wondered if it could ever get this good. Clearly, he never stopped believing it could.

When he set up The Italian in premises off Flinders Lane a few years ago, who knew it would lead to this? A stylish, vast, multi-level diner occupying not only a brilliant, light-filled courtyard, but in a commercially amazing location at the back door of a building whose tenants might fill a business who's who.

This former gallery, where Scheriani reopened The Italian a few months back, is an amazing home for a restaurant. The cream of Melbourne's law firms and investment banks ascend and descend by lift daily, and most go right past Scheriani's front door.

There's a cafe-bar area with an apron that extends into the building's common space; up a few steps, there's a voluminous main dining room, all timber, glass and red leather with soaring ceilings and windows, some smart architectural accessories and a welcoming but inoffensive modern aesthetic.

It feels very much a restaurant of the bustling, commercial hub, a city restaurant that is the antithesis of the hidden laneway gems we so often identify as being the essence of Melbourne. I like it a lot.

And there's that mezzanine level: it doesn't get too much of a work-out by night, but at lunch every available chair has an expensive pair of suit pants on it. Beyond good service, an attractive wine list at fair prices and a degree of discretion when it comes to seating, Scheriani has learned plenty about catering to the corporates during his years in the city. The food is simple but well put together -flash rustic, you might call it - the flavours distinct, the menu presentation accessible, the value-for-money fair. For this he relies on chef Andy Logue, with him for three years (almost). It's Italian, but it's not laid on with a trowel.

From the mezzanine-level of The Italian, looking south through acres of plate glass, you've got a first-class, bird's-eye view of Rosati across Flinders Lane. There's a nice symmetry to it.

The once-iconic bar-restaurant - set up in late 1986 by Piero Gesualdi and Ronnie di Stasio - almost instantly became the pre-Crash, must-visit, must drink, must eat, must coffee, see and be seen epicentre of buoyant Melbourne.

And it's where The Italian's namesake - Roberto Scheriani - started his career as a waiter.

I don't remember what was opposite Rosati back then, but it wasn't 101 Collins; the corporate Tower of Power didn't see its first tenant until March 1991 and as a young man bussing tables and learning the moves, I doubt Scheriani ever dreamt that one day the most important commercial building in the city would be directly opposite and that he'd have his name on the door of its only - huge - restaurant.

Life's road has taken many of us on an interesting, not always smooth, journey and there have been times - through the rise and fall of Ristorante Roberto and R-Bar - when Scheriani might have wondered if it could ever get this good. Clearly, he never stopped believing it could.

When he set up The Italian in premises off Flinders Lane a few years ago, who knew it would lead to this? A stylish, vast, multi-level diner occupying not only a brilliant, light-filled courtyard, but in a commercially amazing location at the back door of a building whose tenants might fill a business who's who.

This former gallery, where Scheriani reopened The Italian a few months back, is an amazing home for a restaurant. The cream of Melbourne's law firms and investment banks ascend and descend by lift daily, and most go right past Scheriani's front door.

There's a cafe-bar area with an apron that extends into the building's common space; up a few steps, there's a voluminous main dining room, all timber, glass and red leather with soaring ceilings and windows, some smart architectural accessories and a welcoming but inoffensive modern aesthetic.

It feels very much a restaurant of the bustling, commercial hub, a city restaurant that is the antithesis of the hidden laneway gems we so often identify as being the essence of Melbourne. I like it a lot.

And there's that mezzanine level: it doesn't get too much of a work-out by night, but at lunch every available chair has an expensive pair of suit pants on it. Beyond good service, an attractive wine list at fair prices and a degree of discretion when it comes to seating, Scheriani has learned plenty about catering to the corporates during his years in the city. The food is simple but well put together -flash rustic, you might call it - the flavours distinct, the menu presentation accessible, the value-for-money fair. For this he relies on chef Andy Logue, with him for three years (almost). It's Italian, but it's not laid on with a trowel.

The Balcon was one of the best restaurants I have been to for some time! The service was excellent and most of the food was great but the best thing about it was the location (Pall mall), ambience and the decor (Art deco and very glamorous!) Would highly recommend!

The Balcon is very similar to The Northall - both are large, very stylish restaurants situated within hotels, but The Balcon wins in terms of food. The Marche Menu offered great value, the food was delicious and the accompanying champagne was a decent sized glass of a proper marque. The service was excellent - when i asked to be moved to a quieter table the staff were very obliging and the Ladies loo is fabulous! One little niggle - please stop cleaning the tables with pungent disinfectant!!

The venue is beautiful, the service was top notch amazing attention to detail.The food was good not outstanding I would recommend just because the service an venue is out of this worls We went for the 2 courses at ?15 each we had 2 kir royale champange cocktails and 2 side dishes which took our bill to ?88 which was quite expensive the cocktails were overpriced at ?15 each Overall lovely experience

As we had been before and I asked for a table on the upper level, they kindly gave us what I consider to be the best table in the room. The food this time was sound but not quite as wonderful as the previous occasion. The veloute was a bit thin and the veg option was rather bland, while the dessert was much too sweet. It's still one of the nicest locations in town though; light and airy and with very attentive staff,

Awana has a nice little bar before you go into the restaurant, with a good cocktail list. We found the service attentive, and the food tasty, but my beef was tough and grisly. However, it is worth a visit, as the atmosphere is pleasant.

Food was good, but there was a lot of it! I did find it quite expensive, even with the discount (40% of selected meals). Service was excellent. 

Good food, good atmosphere. Could improve a bit on the service. Having said that, the service was very good. Not expensive at all by London standards. Would definitely go back

Went to Awana last nite. Food was great and the bonus was the TT offer. We also ordered a nice wine. Will be back again.

Awana in South Kensington has a lovely atmosphere and tasty food (except the curry was not particularly spicy) but it is certainly overpriced, even with the toptable 40% offer. 

Dinner at Awana at Sloane Avenue in Chelsea on Saturday night. Service was excellent and was surprised by the variety of their dessert menu. Chicken Satay was really juicy and the slow cook beef curry was very tasty as well. Would recommand the durian creme brulee even though I am not a big fan of durian! 

We booked Awana with the 40% offer. We were told on arrival that this offer did not apply to the 'chef's specials', where only 25% discount was available.However at least 50% of the dishes in the menu were subject to a chef's special. Although we did not go out to eat to count pennies, it did feel like a bit of a cheat to get people in through the door, but then exempt themselves from the offer. Food was reasonable, but not so excellent as to justify the high price tag even with discount.

We booked Awana with the 40% offer. We were told on arrival that this offer did not apply to the 'chef's specials', where only 25% discount was available.However at least 50% of the dishes in the menu were subject to a chef's special. Although we did not go out to eat to count pennies, it did feel like a bit of a cheat to get people in through the door, but then exempt themselves from the offer. Food was reasonable, but not so excellent as to justify the high price tag even with discount.

We celebrated a birthday at Awana in Chelsea and it was amazing it had the expensive look and with the offer of 40%off on a Saturday made it a bargain. The satay chicked with peanut sauce was succulent. The waitress June was patient and kind tending to 12 people. Parking right outside the restaurant was handy aswel. Worth the visit
Great food, cocktails. We had an excellent night.
Even though it was supposed to be 50% off food, some of the items were charged at full price. Check your bill!
Great food, great value and good service.
Service was excellent. Food was also good quality but just lacked flavour
I was a little worried having read a few bad reviews. BUT, the service was great, the food was great - not that I'm an expert on Malaysian food - and the value for money was incredible. Plus, it's a beautiful restaurant. I'd definitely recommend that you at least try this place out if you're tempted, it's worth it.
Awana, London Great service but disappointed by the food, which was at best average. The stir-fry was a slightly nicer version of a wagamama's stir-fry. The best option was the laksa, which was by far the best meal ordered. Would not recommend that highly.

Had a nice time at Awana. Food was above average but service was excellent and with 50% off was very worth it. Would recommend this restaurant.
The restaurant looked lovely, the food was excellent quality (especially the chicken satay) and the service was very good and efficient (if a little too quick to pour more wine into our glasses - were they trying to get us to order a second bottle?). The prices were reasonable using the 50% off food deal, but I think far too pricey without any deal. But I guess that's what you get in South Ken. Waitress was very good to explain what wasn't included in the 50% off deal (quite a bit).
Awana serves the best chicken satay I've ever had! The rest of the food was tasty
Awana near south kensington is a very smart restaurant with a tasty malaysian themed menu. The deal available is very goo, but a large number of dishes aren't included. However this is the second time I've been and had a great tasty meal.
Had a lovely meal at Awana on Sloane Avenue. Food was very tasty and great value on the 50% off plus free cocktail offer. The offer is only for 25% off the chefs specials and these make up a large proportion of the menu but there was still plenty of choice.
Awana was absolutly delicious food, a wonderful atmosphere and very attentive service. Slightly pricey for what it is, but I would still recommend it.
Visited Awana in Brompton with my fiance. Nice food, great selection of mocktails, good ambience and friendly staff. However, service could have been quicker. Overall good night out, would definitely return.
Really nice place, went for lunch and had the 50% off food offer and a free drink, this is a really good offer as the food is expensive. Food was amazing but best of all halal. Service was good and quick
lovely food as usual. just a little on the expensive side but great offers from toptable make it possible to enjoy it much cheaper than the menu prices. Took some friends for the first time and the food and cocktails were lovely.
Awana on Sloane Avenue, London Very attractive setting in a great location. We had the specially priced luncheon with two courses and a glass of house wine, and were pleased by the available selections and the quality of the food for the price. The regular menu prices seemed a bit steep for that type of cuisine, however. The service was erratic, and one of our entrees did not arrive until several minutes after the other, which was awkward. Caution advised at busy times.
As always, the food and service at Awana were excellent. I'd recommend the starter platter to share...With a 50% discount of the Ala Carte and 25% of chef's specials
The food at Awana is good however the service is really pompous, the waitresses seemed really arrogant and looked down upon any one who had an offer. Not that much choice for the 505 offer. I liked the food however the service has put me off from coming here again.
Food was delicious, service was good but we were told repeatedly that they were closing at 3.00pm. We only arrived at 2.15pm and felt a little pressured to leave by 3.00pm which we did! Overall not bad!
great food and service, beef skewers not cooked too well so just make sure u request it be very well done
Nice ambience and music, good service and friendly staff. Food not great, especially for the price. Also over half the menu (and ALL extras e.g. rice) is not eligible for the Toptable offers - kind of limiting.
We decided to try a new place and new flavours. Unfortunatelly, the evening was not as we expected it too be. The menu was limited, guess because we decided to pay with top table points, but nevertheless. Your would think tha if there are promostions restaurants actually would want to attract new cusomers. The starters were rather nice, but the main courses were a dissapointment. Overpriced drinks and overspeedy sevice - it felt like they wanted us to go as fast as possible.
The satay chicken skewers are probably one of the best in the city. We order the 3 course set menu and everything was absolutely delicious. The atmosphere was romantic and relaxing. Great for couples and large groups. The food is not extremely authentic but I suppose the client?le probably prefers a slightly more fusion taste. Over all, I highly recommend it!
Awana, Brompton Good Malaysian food in a great location. But unfortunately due to the two hour turnaround on all tables, we felt somewhat rushed and didn't have nearly enough time to sample the range of desserts that the restaurant had to offer. The service staff were all friendly, helpful and attentive. The prices were very good for the large portion sizes. Had we not shared all the dishes between the four of us, I would have struggled to finish a main course on my own.
Nice Malaysian. Gud deal with the 40% off. Although the food this time round was not as good as the first time i went.
the food was delicious. The place is very popular and busy so i understand that the staff were rushed off their feet but they could have been more friendly!
Good food - very quick. Very attentive staff. Good value food with TopTable offer but wine quite expensive.
I had the lunch offer on saturday and it was really nice. The presentation of the food was origingal, it tasted good and it was an adequate portion. The service was very fantastic and we did have a good time there. Worth another try

I had the lunch offer on saturday and it was really nice. The presentation of the food was origingal, it tasted good and it was an adequate portion. The service was very fantastic and we did have a good time there. Worth another try
Quick reward dinner at Awana. Food was very nice. Service excellent
really enjoyed our dinner at Awana. We used our toptable rewards ponits to go and it was liovely, although I thought that the choice for mains was a little llimited. great service. Beware drinks, especially beer are very expensive but a great atmosphere and evening in all.
Always quality food and very big portions, highly recommended!
Food was delicious and its a bonus the meal comes with a bottle of wine and also 50% off on most of the main courses.
Food was delicious and its a bonus the meal comes with a bottle of wine and also 50% off on most of the main courses.
Starters were nice but the Pheasant main was very tough, everything thing else was spot on.
Awana brings the Malaysian atmosphere right to London, dark wood decor,scrubs dotted around the place and low lighting makes for a good romantic spot. Service is excellent our group were stuck for choice and the waiter happily recommended a few dishes as well as off the menu items. The food it self is pretty tasty but falls short of the real stuff back in Malaysian, also recommend you use 50% off deal. I will have to try their Nasi Lemak next time which is the real Malaysian taste test.
the food was delicious. The place is very popular and busy so i understand that the staff were rushed off their feet but they could have been more friendly!
Good food - very quick. Very attentive staff. Good value food with TopTable offer but wine quite expensive.
I had the lunch offer on saturday and it was really nice. The presentation of the food was origingal, it tasted good and it was an adequate portion. The service was very fantastic and we did have a good time there. Worth another try
Fantastic evening. Great service and great food. Will be back.
really enjoyed our dinner at Awana. We used our toptable rewards ponits to go and it was liovely, although I thought that the choice for mains was a little llimited. great service. Beware drinks, especially beer are very expensive but a great atmosphere and evening in all.
It was my first time to The Balcon on Pall Mall, service was attentive and polite and a enjoyable relaxed and stylish ambience. Went for the Marche menu which was ?15 for 2 courses ?20 for (3 including coffee). Well worth that value with a very nice parsnip veloute and decent portion main of pan fried gurnard, however other guests steak & ale pie was a little tough and pastry not quite right. Deserts sounded nice but altough ok were nothing I would make a particular mention of.
It was my first time to The Balcon on Pall Mall, service was attentive and polite and a enjoyable relaxed and stylish ambience. Went for the Marche menu which was ?15 for 2 courses ?20 for (3 including coffee). Well worth that value with a very nice parsnip veloute and decent portion main of pan fried gurnard, however other guests steak & ale pie was a little tough and pastry not quite right. Deserts sounded nice but altough ok were nothing I would make a particular mention of.
We went to The Balcon in Pall Mall after the opera. There was hardly anyone in the restaurant, but the staff made us really welcome and did not hurry us out. The portions were large and the special menu which we had good value.
The Balcon my colleagues thought, was a good new find in the Pall Mall area. The mains were just right portion with good flavours.
We had the market menu at The Balcon which was nice and good value for money. The service was good; I was late due to train delays and there was no pressure to get to or leave the table.
Portions are small but the food is delicious and the service impeccable.
Had a lovely leidsurely lunch at The Balcon one sunday Unfortunately there was confusion as we thought we had booked the TT offer, but they said they didnt do that menu on Sunday. They were flexible though and actually let us eat the sheap selection :-) Good, simple food, wonderful building, attentive service and great value - even coffee was included in the TT offer!
Had a lovely leidsurely lunch at The Balcon one sunday Unfortunately there was confusion as we thought we had booked the TT offer, but they said they didnt do that menu on Sunday. They were flexible though and actually let us eat the sheap selection :-) Good, simple food, wonderful building, attentive service and great value - even coffee was included in the TT offer!
Dinner at the Balcon was very elegant and great value. We had the 2 courses for ?15 and as much as I wanted to have a third course, I simply couldn't fit it in! There was a good range of choice on the set menu (3 choices per course) and although the wine list was on the expensive side, we drank a very reasonable French Malbec that complimented the food very well. Recommended, and I will return.
The Balcon, Pall Mall was a lovely venue, however, food was disappointing, mainly because the mains were not warm when given. This might be because the restaurant was very busy on Thursday evening.
very nice venue/deco/service. We had the summer menu. Very nice starter (slamon salad) but the main course let it down (beef pie and fish dish). Still overall it was a nice experience as long as you don't expect Michelin star.
A friend and I booked under a deal of three courses plus wine and coffee for ?25, and it was an absolute bargain. The food, drink and ambience were all lovely but what impressed me most was the service. The staff were great, taking our coats and bags as soon as we stepped in and showing us to our table. They were very attentive throughout the meal and left just the right amount of time before bringing out each course. I would definitely go again.
Booked The Balcon and 3 courses+wine+coffee ?25 deal for a business lunch. The restaurant itself looks lovely and the service exceptional. The food ranged from excellent to average. The complimentary warm bread basket (which was refilled free) and dessert were excellent. The starter and main a little overcooked. The wine which came with the deal was fantastic but the filter coffee was average. Overall though it was an extremely good deal, we weren't rushed and I will definitely be back soon!
perfect place for a business lunch - well spaced tables, very professional and attentive staff, faultless food. they do a lovely gin and tonic with thyme and basil so worth having a drink before hand too in the bar. would i take a date? not sure, i prefer more intimate places for that, but definitely will be back.
The Balcon Pall Mall London enchanting atmosphere, excellent service, well presented food, very tasty food, if only the mineral water was less overpriced.
Fantastic food, service and value for money at Le Balcon. We booked for a pre-theatre dinner using the Top Table offer of 2 course for 15 pounds (with the option of a third course). The staff, particularly the head waiter, were excellent, accommodating our timing needs and rather odd combination of courses (I had a starter and main, my colleague had a starter and dessert) with no fuss. The service is a real high point witout being intrusive and the quality of ood at this price, exceptional.
Good food, value for money and excellent service. Will definitely head back.
The Balcon is well situated, nice and french decor. Food was good and service is attentive. Could have done better as the food was way too salty
My husband and I went to The Balcon in London on 2 of March. The food is absolutely amazing and services are super. We both enjoyed not only the food but also the services. Definitely super and love it........ Jie
The service was so good, I thought I was in America!
The Balcon, London.A perfect location for the Theatres around Haymarket, an excellent pre theatre dinner.Opens early and they are very attentive to the timings of your exit to the theatre, spacious seating, taking care to spread out the diners.A very enjoyable dining experience
I really much enjoy my dinner at the Balcon. The staff was very friendly and smily! and the atmosphere was very nice. The food was a bit dispointing, however, it seems that the normal menu offered my yummy choices.
This was my second visit in a week. The service is delightful, food flavoursome and perfectly cooked with nice combination of ingredients. Top marks Balcon, I will be back! ps, the rose macaroon is out of this world.
The Balcon was a great venue with attentive staff and interesting menu. Slightly cold main course but otherwise was impressed.
Smart, St James hotel (Sofitel) restaurant. Great decor may be a bit vacuous. Great location overlooking Waterloo Place. We had the set 2-course meal and it was pretty good for the price. A La Carte - cannot really comment. Wine by the glass is a killer. But that's this part of London generally.
The venus is marvelous. It's a place which you should visit at least once. Starter was good, main course was overcooked (I chose duck breast), dessert was nornal/alright. The mint tea my friend ordered was nice, there was fresh mint leave with hot water, smell loverly but doubt if there is any tea in it. Overall I would recommend, it was nice experience considering the good value deal.
Felt quite corporate- very attentive staff. And the nicoise salad was great with the tuna cooked perfectly. The special menu was great value however neither of us were inspired by the choices it offered so went a la carte.
Balcon in Pal Mal London. Excellent service, good food and really good value especially for central London. Decor and comfort also great.
Went to the Balcon in Pall Mall, I cannot fault anything, service was excellent, same as the food and surroundings. I went for the set menu at ?15 per head very good value I highly recommend it
Did not get off to a great start as we had to wait 30 minutes from our reservation time for a table. No offer of a drink whilst waiting. The meal was good but with no standout highlights. Whilst none of my party chose it I would recommend the set meno as being good value and choice. Wine list was a little of the expensive side. with nothing interesting at under ?40
Outstanding service and food. Only down side was the high price of drinks!!!
A 5* restaurant serving 3* food. The set menu was disappointing. Well cooked but bland, unimaginative and basic. Though the service was attentive and friendly, it was disorganised. 3 different people tried to take our drinks order, they ran out of duck but didn't tell me until a small plate of chicken arrived as replacement - i sent it back. Dessert was good but nothing special. Coffee was also average. A nice interior and service staff trying hard. Better places available for the price.
A rather last minute decision to attend the Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden, but rather glad I did !! Entirely splendid - only criticism was that the beef was on the more medium side of rare...
Celebrated my birthday here with friend and was very excited to visit after reading the reviews.The service was initially very slow, especially since we were seated on a table towards the back corner of the restaurant. We spent a lot of the night trying to get the waiter's attention. The food however greatly improved my impression of the restaurant. It is definitely good value with the 3 courses for ?20 offer. Would recommend it, but more for an intimate meal than a group celebration.
Best beef bourgignon I've ever eaten..good tasty food and good wine!!! Used the 50% off food option which meant menu was limited..still good tho!!
Amazing food. Great service. The deal was really good value. I'm definitely going to go back to this place again and recommend it to all my friends.
Boulevard Brasserie is a well located, quaint restaurant in Covent Garden. My table had 3 courses and Kir Royale for ?20 each- excellent value for money. Food was delicious but could have done with being slightly hotter. Lots of food choice for this special offer. Pleasant staff, felt in no rush. Would visit again if offer was on.
I've been to this restaurant a couple of times some time back and thought I'd go again for the offer. We were seated at the basement - shame, but I guess it's because we opted for 50% off. The food was good - we had beef and foie gras for starters and tried the duck confit as well as fish - but it wouldn't have been worth it without the offer.
Boulevard Brasserie, Covent Garden - A good busy Brasserie ambiance, very friendly and efficient service,. The maincourse (we had Duck with lentils) was tasty and well- cooked with generous portions. The music was a little loud for our taste, especially at first. Overall though, a most enjoyable meal experience, we may well be back when next in London.
we had a lovely after theater meal. Service was pleasant and efficient. The food was simple but really tasty and nicely presented. Would definately go back.
We've been to Boulevard Brasserie in London's Covent garden quite a lot. It's central, reasonable and appetising. They give you a friendly welcome and good service.
Starting with negatives at Boulevard Brasserie, the wine we were brought had already been started, one wineglass was chipped, there wasn't enough cutlery, the pasta was flavorless, the 'cheese and biscuits' scant and the toilets poor. As for positives, with the deal it worked out as a very reasonble price. But the portions were just too small and the attention to detail too cursory. A disappointment after some great meals there in the past, which are why I'll still give them one last chance.
Boulevard Brasserie, Covent Garden, London - really nice venue, felt very authentic french and staff were very polite and efficient. Excellent food - my parents live in France and they were very impressed with the quality! Great Burger. Would definitely recommend as a great little lunch spot!
We had the set menu at the Boulevard Brasserie, Covent Garden - lots of choices, food was delicious and fresh and fast service. Wil definitely go back again soon.
Good welcome and very well prepared to deal with my wife's gluten allergy. Excellent attentive service and very good value with the menu. Highly recommended for a pre theatre dinner service. Simple classic bistro cuisine.
I booked at table at the Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden at the last minute and was not disappointed. The staff were all very friendly, the atmosphere relaxed and the meal was super. Definitely would recommend this place to my friends and colleagues.
I have always really enjoyed my visits to Boulevard in the past, but was slightly disappointed this time. The service was not as good as usual, and I was annoyed to find that a 12.5% service charge was added to the bill. I declined to pay this, although I was happy to pay 10%, but at my discretion. The food was, however, very good, but our enjoyment of it was coloured by the less than friendly and occasionally slow service.
As always it was a pleasure having dinner at Boulevard Brasserie. The service was excellent & the food delicious! The 2 courses & a Kir Royal for ?15 is really good value for money.
Good food for a good price at Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden. I had rocket salad for starters, later beuf bourgignon for mains with a champagne drink to accompany that. I thought the food quality was good, the service was good, and the ambiance was good. 

Dined art Boulevard Brasserie, Covent Garden. Food was very tasty with a nice selection. The chocolate tart was absolutely gorgeous!!! Would return just for that! Nice decor and staff were very attentive. Only complaint would be that we had to wait quite a while in between courses. Went on Sunday for the Sunday Roast and wasn't disappointed.
Boulevard Brasseris, Covent Garden, London - this was booked a few days before the dinner as was a great deal at 50% off. Great value for money at ?20 for two courses and a glass of wine. Nice atmosphere, however the service was initially slow.
Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden, London, was delightful yet again. We had a delicious meal there (seafood linguine and duck confit) and were positively bursting by the time we left. Would visit again for sure!
This was my third visit to Boulevard Brasserie. This was a pre-theatre meal so we asked for quick service, but still had to ask the waiter to hurry things along and only just managed to reach the theatre at curtain up! Rather disappointed with my Boeuf Bourguignon this time - great flavour but the meat was gristly. Everything else fine and it is still a very nice, atmospheric French restaurant.
This place never fails to please for a nice chilled out dinner. Food is superb (the duck with lentils is to die for!) and it is great value for money. Highly recommend! 

We were at the restaurant for the 3rd time but food and service before was much better. What happened with Boulevard Brasserie?
The starters were lovely- very fresh and tasty. however it did take ages to get our food and our main meals arrived cold and v=below average. tough fatty steak and cold fries. There are better places around!
Another lovely evening at Boulevard Brasserie in London's Covent Garden. We are regulars here and find the ?15 for two courses menu (including a generous Kir Royale) really good value. The menu is limited, even more so for a non meat eater like me, but the risotto was superb and my friends enjoyed their steak. Good ambience and the last two times I've booked I've requested a specific table, which has been waiting for me so I appreciate that extra level of service. Recommended.
Went to Boulevard Brasserie with my husband and two friends last night. The service was good, but there was a long wait time between the starter and main course. Not a lot of options for vegetarians. I had the french onion soup which was very good and the penne for a main. I enjoyed both my dishes, but my husband was not found of the fatty pork belly he got. The location is closer to the theatres and can be very touristy. Overall I would say the food is not bad for the 50% off price.
Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden is perfect for pre-theatre dinners. Excellent food for the price.
The service was good,the food was good,and my friends enjoyed it
Boulevard Brasserie, Covent Garden, good deal on TT 50% off. Mussels under seasoned for a French restaurant but apparently catering for 'English' taste - odd occupying such a cosmopolitan situation. Very friendly and attentive staff, cosy ambience.
We arrived one hour before our booked time, and were accommodated immediately. The starters, main course and sweets were all well presented and very well cooked. The staff were most attentive and we hope to return in not too distant future. NB.No water in gents toilets.
Boulevard Brasserie, London. Good food, atmospere and service
Excellent as always, we went here for a pre-xmas meal and it was delicious, fantastic service, yummy. I'd highly recommend this restaurant to anyone!
The Boulevard Brasserie served its purpose in that it was so close to the theatre and the food was fine - not exciting. There was a feeling of "it'll do as they are all tourists" about it.
Really enjoyed a pre-theatre meal at the Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden. The food was fine and decent value but it's the atmosphere that made this so lovely. Great 'deco' decor, the right light level, buzzy, a nice, informal feel. Service was efficient but they weren't hanging over you the whole time, getting in the way of your meal. It has a genuinely French feel about it. Nice to find such a good place in such a central location.
As ever a lovely meal at Boulevard Brasserie. Food came very quickly which was just what we wanted for a pre-theatre meal, portions were excellent and quality great. Always a top recommendation.
Boulevard Brasserie is a little piece of France in Covent Garden. As you walk in it's like passing into a Paris cafe. Very friendly staff, (that's the non-French bit!) good menu and enjoyable food. Lovely place will go again
On a girls night out, the 4 of us visited The Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden for their pre-theatre menu offer. The food was delicious and great value. We mentioned to the waiter that we were in a hurry and they done their best to accomodate to for us. I would definitely eat here again!
fabulous meal, service and price. would absolutely recommend for casual catch up or birthday meal. love it! 
Boulevard Brasserie (London) serves good, simple bistro food. The service is good and the location is great - it is between the Shrek musical theatre and the Lion King musical theatre. Their toptable set menu comes with a kir royale and just completed the meal perfectly!
4 of us ate at the Boulevard Brasserie in Covent Garden on a Saturday night before the theater. This is the perfect place to go if you're seeing Shrek as we were as it is seconds away. Lovely atmosphere and good service. The top table ?15 deal was very good value
Great meal as usual but I feel a change of menu would be good
Very pleased that we were given the table I asked for at the time of the booking. Excellente venue if you want to have a quiet chat in a nice atmosphere - no loud music, pretty good layout, candles on the table, etc. Good value for money if you go for one of the set menues (available on Sunday) or other deals through TopTable.
Excellent birthday dinner held here last night. The food service and staff were brilliant.
We had a very enjoyable meal, menu was perhaps a bit limited but the ambience was excellent, the quality of the food was good when it arrived and the service was helpful and friendly
Nice place, nice food. Typical French brasserie. Everything was pleasant. Good value with the 50% discount. Sea bass was delicious!
Visited Boulevard Brasserie (Covent Garden) and enjoyed another selection of great food and wine. Service helpful but not intrusive. Atmosphere relaxed and enjoyable. I would highly recommend this restaurant for good food and service.

Next door to the restaurant is a sweet little Italian bakery and deli that offers catering, custom gift baskets and wedding cakes. Hours are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday; 4 to 8 p.m. Sunday.
Looking for a light lunch, served in a pleasant atmosphere by a friendly staff? Amici?s Italian Restaurant in Suntree might fit the bill. It?s a bright, friendly place with an attractive bar, comfy booths and pleasant music playing in the background. 

The only problem is while there are a number of salads on the menu (Greek, spinach, chef?s, Caesar and tomato and onion) that could make for light lunching, this is an Italian place. It?s difficult to pass up the pasta. 

We skipped the appetizers, though the Appetizer ala Amici ? shrimp, eggplant rollatini, clams, mussels and stuffed mushrooms ($11.95) ? looked interesting. My lunch companion and I had run more than five miles a couple of days earlier, and we were in the mood to carb-load. 

Plus, our waiter immediately brought a basket of warm bread with a crunchy crust and a soft, spongy middle perfect for sopping up herbed olive oil. 

Soon to follow were decent house salads with the standard mix of greens, dressed up nicely with green and black olives and a flavorful oil-and-vinegar house dressing. 

The menu includes standard Italian fare, such as Chicken Parmigiana and Chicken Piccata, Baked Ziti and Penne ala Vodka, and Veal Saltimbocca. 

The lunch and dinner menus feature similar offerings, with slightly smaller, less-expensive portions at lunch. 

I went straight for my favorite, lasagna ($8.95 at lunch), and wasn?t disappointed. A generous portion arrived straight from the oven, bubbling in a small casserole dish. 

Each bite was an exploration of chewy cheese, herb-filled sauce and moist pasta. While some places have a red sauce that tastes like it might have come from a jar, Amici?s tastes fresh and delicious. 

My friend went with the lunch special of the day, Penne ala Amici ($10.95), penne pasta saut?ed with onions, mushrooms and large shrimp. 

Having grown up eating ? as she describes it ? ?very authentic Italian cooking,? she can be picky, and many Italian places leave her unimpressed. Not so with Amici?s. 

No one herb or flavor in her dish overpowered the others. They all blended together in a perfect medley. And the shrimp was cooked just right, firm without turning rubbery. 

At dinner, a server generally stops by the table with a sinful array of dessert offerings. We weren?t asked about desserts after lunch (maybe because we both boxed up half our entrees), but it didn?t matter. We had other plans. 

Next door to the restaurant is Amici?s Bakery and Deli, a small storefront packed with display cases of deliciousness. The bakery offers various Italian cheeses, sodas and other treats. But we were there for the cookies. There are so many, we couldn?t decide, so we went with a variety of butter cookies ($9.99 a pound), and a mini-cannoli each ($1.50). 

The assorted cookies included chocolate-dipped, jelly-topped and cherry-topped, just to name a few. All were fresh, sweet and greatly appreciated by our colleagues at the office. My mini-cannoli (a regular-size one is available for $3.75) was a creamy, dreamy concoction: not too sweet, not too sticky, just right. 

All in all, Amici?s left us satisfied, smiling and ready to face the rest of the day.
Earlier this week my wife and I celebrated our 19th wedding anniversary at RoSals Restaurant on Taylor Street. This ten table restaurant serves up some of the best Sicilian style cuisine in the neighborhood with a very extensive pasta list to choose from. Among the pastas are traditional dishes like Rigatoni Arrabbiata, Sweet Annolotti and Homemade Raviolis. The veal, fish, beef and chicken dishes are straight out of Sicily.

This restaurant was opened in 1990 by Salvatore and Rosanne Perry who lived in the Little Italy neighborhood for years before opening this nice little Italian restaurant. There is nothing better than a family owned restaurant.
When you first walk into the dining room it seems like your walking into some ones home. The restaurant has a very warm and inviting atmosphere with photos lining the walls. We had early reservations on an off night, like I normally like to eat because I figure nobody will be there, but the place was so full by 7:30 they had to open the upstairs dining room. Any restaurant in the city would kill for that kind of business.
We first ordered a bottle of Righetti Valpolicella 2004 to start off the evening. We drink much better when we?re out with the ?Wine Guys?. For appetizers we ended up ordering the Stuffed Mushroom and the Stuffed Artichoke, needless to say we were stuffed before the entrees, but that didn?t stop us.
When it came to the entr?es my wife broke my rule about ordering steak at an Italian restaurant but at least the saut?ed spinach that it came with was made Sicilian style. So anyway she ordered the Filet Mignon with cracked black pepper but instead got the steak covered with crushed red pepper flakes which was rather disappointing though the steak was very good.
I ordered the Veal Steppanjohnno which is similar to the Breaded Veal recipe I recently posted. It?s an excellent dish that we enjoyed very much. There was a great flavor combination going on with the veal, vegetables, prosciutto and provolone that we enjoyed very much.
For dessert we had a Lemoncello Zabaglione that was so light and airy it complimented the dinner perfectly. 
All in all, RoSals is a nice casual place with excellent Sicilian food. Bring the whole family to enjoy this little Italian restaurant in the heart of Little Italy.

What can I say about a Chicago landmark that has been in business for eighty years. The Italian Village Restaurants has been owned and operated by the Capitanini family since 1927 and has been successful ever since. Alfred Capitanini, who immigrated to this country, offered authentic Italian cuisine at a very good price. 

Years ago I would go to the Village often and have always enjoyed the atmosphere and the food. Service is always top notch since a majority of the staff has been around for quite some time I?m sure they have everything down to a science by now.
The Italian Village has three restaurants under one roof, ?The Village?, ?La Cantina? and ?Vivere? and boasts the largest wine cellars in the Midwest. All three restaurants share a 45,000 bottle wine list, which sommelier Ron Balter maintains on a daily basis.
My wife and I decided on eating at ?The Village? located on the second floor. Designed like a little Italian town, ?The Village? is a very cozy and romantic place to dine.
We started with an order of ?Baked Clams Oreganata? and an Italian antipasto which was excellent. Baked clams have always been my favorite since I was young.
For our entrees we ended up ordering the ?Rotolo di Polo? which was chicken rolled with sausage, prosciutto and sage and served with fettuccini alfredo and my wife?s all time favorite ?Pollo alla Vesuvio? which is served with Vesuvius potatoes and loaded with herbs and garlic.
Needless to say both dishes were delicious but I especially enjoyed the ?Rotolo di Polo?. The best ?Chicken Vesuvio? we ever had was at ?La Fontanella? on 24th and Oakley.
I don?t drink as well as when I?m with my wine guys, they usually bring something from their private collections to the table, but we did have a simple bottle of Lungaritti Pino Grigio which was fine with our meal.
To top off the evening we simply enjoyed coffee with Sambuca . This time we were just to full for dessert.
The Italian Village is the oldest Italian restaurant in Chicago and a great part of Italian-American history. They are located at 71 West Monroe. For reservations phone 312-332-7005 or visit their website at www.italianvillage-chicago.com
Rose Pistola makes excellent trendy Italian food on Columbus Street in North Beach.
Rose Pistola is a beautiful restaurant and its North Beach location is ideal. The service is awesome and the food is delicious. Expect to spend about $50 per person for dinner and about $30 per person for lunch.
A long bar decorates the space with natural wood and halogen lighting. The food is Italian with a California flair. They grill a variety of fish and meats, feature brick oven pizza's, and have a variety of pasta's with great wines.
B.W. raves in August 1997, "Rose Pistola was wonderful! Didn't have reservations and walked in and got seated immediately. Had outstanding meal, great service and ideas I have already imitated in my kitchen. Their Heirloom tomato salad, gnocchi with calamari sauce and my favorite Summer Pudding were outstanding..."
Rose Pistola is highly recommended and very popular so make sure to make reservations well in advance or consider visiting at an off hour. Andy's rating is an "A-" for a great restaurant but an elitist air.
Rose Pistola also features live music, mostly jazz, on most nights. Call for details.

Little City is among the coolest restaurants in SF. Great food served tapas style with an Italian bent. Located in a prime area in North Beach right across from a large park. This is a happening place and has been for years. Andy's rating is a "A-" with dinners per person running around $25 with drinks. The atmosphere is festive and open with an electricity in the air. Great food, good service, and cool atmosphere. Little City is a lot of fun and a relatively unappreciated place.
Park Chow is a highly recommended casual restaurant in the Sunset district (foggy!) near the trendy corner of Ninth Avenue & Irving. This area has filled quickly with cafes and restaurants pushing out what was once an authentic Asian neighborhood. However, there remain many interesting local family owned businesses.

This restaurant is a clone of its Castro companion near the Castro District. The first "Chow" was widely successful and critically acclaimed. We visited both restaurants most recently in April 2000. What makes these places cool is:

    Great atmosphere including a cozy fire.
    Very reasonable prices for high quality food - average ticket is about $15 per person (or even less) with a drink.
    A fun place with good food.
    Specials are a great value and what the chef likes to make!

We visited Park Chow during the winter and Chow in the Spring.  The food was great! We had a pork sandwich lunch special which was sliced very thin with tasty cheese and mustard. The $7 special included soup or salad. The minestrone soup was pretty good on a cold day. The long narrow restaurant includes counter seating. Another common feature is gourmet pizzas.

parkchow.jpg (12104 bytes)

Great food -- good prices -- casual atmosphere. We finished our meal with a delicious dessert which was a ginger cake with pumpkin ice cream and a wonderful caramel sauce. Park Chow is creative!

On our 2nd visit during Spring 2000, we enjoyed Thai spicy chicken salad with a healthy oil-free dressing. The lunch was great for only $7. Our guest enjoyed the salmon sandwich with a side salad included. The salmon sandwich was awesome -- dinner quality for lunch prices! Needless to say, the restaurant gets busy at lunch with their excellent value proposition and food quality. Again on our 2nd visit, the service was somewhat below par. If you're in a hurry, this isn't the place to go. The cozy, woodsy atmosphere is really comfortable... Window seating at Church Street Chow allows you to really observe the neighborhood's feel.

Another issue was the service quality on both visits spaced a year+ apart. The time of year may have been a factor, but there were a number of minor issues with our service. This included long waits for service, missing items, and a miscalculated bill which was never solved. Nothing to stop us from rushing back though!

Park Chow is highly recommended and worth a trip. It's not a place you'll find many tourists... just smart locals. The Sunset area actually has semi-adequate parking compared to many areas of the city. Just don't plan on parking right at 9th & Irving.
Park Chow is a highly recommended casual restaurant in the Sunset district (foggy!) near the trendy corner of Ninth Avenue & Irving. This area has filled quickly with cafes and restaurants pushing out what was once an authentic Asian neighborhood. However, there remain many interesting local family owned businesses.
This restaurant is a clone of its Castro companion near the Castro District. The first "Chow" was widely successful and critically acclaimed. We visited both restaurants most recently in April 2000. What makes these places cool is:
?	Great atmosphere including a cozy fire.
?	Very reasonable prices for high quality food - average ticket is about $15 per person (or even less) with a drink.
?	A fun place with good food.
?	Specials are a great value and what the chef likes to make!
We visited Park Chow during the winter and Chow in the Spring.  The food was great! We had a pork sandwich lunch special which was sliced very thin with tasty cheese and mustard. The $7 special included soup or salad. The minestrone soup was pretty good on a cold day. The long narrow restaurant includes counter seating. Another common feature is gourmet pizzas.
 
Great food -- good prices -- casual atmosphere. We finished our meal with a delicious dessert which was a ginger cake with pumpkin ice cream and a wonderful caramel sauce. Park Chow is creative!
On our 2nd visit during Spring 2000, we enjoyed Thai spicy chicken salad with a healthy oil-free dressing. The lunch was great for only $7. Our guest enjoyed the salmon sandwich with a side salad included. The salmon sandwich was awesome -- dinner quality for lunch prices! Needless to say, the restaurant gets busy at lunch with their excellent value proposition and food quality. Again on our 2nd visit, the service was somewhat below par. If you're in a hurry, this isn't the place to go. The cozy, woodsy atmosphere is really comfortable... Window seating at Church Street Chow allows you to really observe the neighborhood's feel.
Another issue was the service quality on both visits spaced a year+ apart. The time of year may have been a factor, but there were a number of minor issues with our service. This included long waits for service, missing items, and a miscalculated bill which was never solved. Nothing to stop us from rushing back though!
Park Chow is highly recommended and worth a trip. It's not a place you'll find many tourists... just smart locals. The Sunset area actually has semi-adequate parking compared to many areas of the city. Just don't plan on parking right at 9th & Irving.
Restaurant Gary Danko

San Francisco Review

danko1.jpg (2881 bytes)

Roast Lobster with Trumpet Mushrooms, Soy Beans and Tarragon

Our Top Pick for Unlmited Expense Accounts.

One of San Francisco's hottest luxury restaurants, Restaurant Gary Danko earned a coveted Mobil Five Star award. Why? In two words, Gary Danko rocks! Beginning his career at Beringer Vineyards as executive chef in Napa, Gary moved to Chateau Souverain in Sonoma and on to the Ritz Carlton. Gary's final stint before opening his own restaurant was at Viognier's gourmet in San Francisco.

danko3.jpg (2988 bytes)

Moroccan Spiced Squab with Chermoula, Orange-Cumin Carrots

Danko is only seventy-five seats for people who know good food. Ingredients enhancing each other like juniper spiced venison medallions and cranberry-onion compote, or snapper with saffron, tarragon and fennel puree delight patrons. The desserts are both delicious and unique like frozen almond souffle with blood orange sauce or passion fruit and mango napoleon. Food and Wine magazine ranked Gary Danko as one of the ten best new chefs in America, but in 1999 his destiny was revealed with the amazing Danko. The James Beard Foundation named Gary the best chef in California.

danko2.jpg (2768 bytes)

Baked Cointreau Orange Non-Cholesterol Souffle with Two Sauces

Restaurant Gary Danko is one of the most refined, sophisticaated restaurants in San Francisco. You can expect to spend around $100 per person here for a full meal with drinks and dessert. The menu is divided by the number of courses served. This is one of San Francisco's TOP restaurants -- highly recommended.

Our readers write, "Gary Danko's is by far the finest dining experience my wife and I have had in San Franciso Bay area. We recently went for the fourth time. The food is always elegantly prepared and presented. The service is the most professional yet attentive (but not overbearing!) you will find anywhere.

By comparison... My wife and I always stay at the Ritz. Their resraurant is the only other 5 Star in the city. While their food is good their service is pretentious. Their staff make us feel that they are quite above it all.

In our view the dining experience at Gary's is truly the finest we have found in the world..." Rose Pistola is a great restaurant featuring excellent California style Italian food.

Little City - Italian food served tapas (little plate) style...

Buca Giovanni is a very authentic Italian restaurant in a romantic basement deep in North Beach. It's always reliable with great food and has been around for years. A meal runs around $30 per person.
800 Greenwich @ Columbus 776-7766

The Stinking Rose - Garlic to the Max - $25/person
has excellent vegeterian pasta at low prices in a cafe style atmosphere. Located in the trendy Marina District. Italian food at 2027 Chestnut 474-3400 (North Beach location also). ($15 for 2). Click on their logo for more info...

Il Fornaio is a California chain, but has great Italian authentic food in a romantic atmosphere. Excellent bakeries in the restaurant and in a nice park (Levi's Plaza). About $70 for two.

Caffee Macaroni (click to see more) is a real Italian restaurant and they sure don't serve spaghetti! The waiters speak Italian and make very authentic Italian food in a critically acclaimed restaurant for about $25 per diner. It's a small place in North Beach @ 59 Columbus / 956-9737

North Beach Restaurant

Mixed reviews from diners of this classic-type Italian restaurant. Generally positive reviews from diners of the food, but several complaints regarding service. $40-$50 per meal (total with salad / tip / tax / drinks). 1512 Stockton Street @ Columbus in the heart of North Beach 415-392-1700

Our Readers Recommend:

Venticello Restaurant - "we go every year and always eat there... great food at a reasonable price and a nice atmosphere..." (Thanks to J.V. 2/97) Others call it delicious but pricey with great pizza and tasty pasta. A cozy atmosphere but service with an attitude for a whopping $35 per person.
1257 Taylor @ Washington 415-922-2545

Ti Piacera - Northern Italian restaurant recommended by a reader for great value.

1507 Polk St. 415-771-9946

Word on the street is... "Lupa Trattoria is our favorite SF Italian / Roman cuisine and is in Noe Valley on 24th St near Castro. Service is very friendly and all the wait staff is Italian. Great selection of appetizers - my favorite is the grilled radicchio with goat cheese. I recently had the crab risotto special, which was very light and flavorful. Of course I can't resist the tiramisu."

We heard... "I tried a new Italiana restaurant in the Castro (on Market St.) Repastoria Satyricon. The food was great (I had a salmon and pasta dish and my partner had the polenta), the ambience was warm and cozy, and there was a decent selection of wines by the glass. Service was very attentive also."
The Stinking Rose is fun, but touristy with great, fast service and good food. They use more GARLIC than you could ever imagine. It's great if you love garlic -- they use plenty. I recommend it, even though it's very touristy. Cost is around $25 per person and the "Stinker" is in North Beach.

How things change - I came here with two friends mid-2011 year and it was fine. Contrast this with my experience with one friend in late February 2012.
we entered at 8pm and a waitress gave us a menu proudly boasting a two-course deal on the front cover, only to be told when we tried to order that this menu was not available after 7pm;
the waitress took our drinks order, but walked away whilst my dining companion was in mid-sentence with her order;
the waiter seemed preoccupied with two young female Spanish tourists, flirting and regularly leaning over their table to read their map (and pointing his bottom in my face whilst doing so), and shouting conversation with them even whilst he was in the process of servicing our table;
the icing on the cake was when the waiter shook my hand. It was to 'congratulate' me for persuading my female dining companion into paying the bill for me (a male) and he then made a big thing about Italian men never letting a woman pay for them! I found it inappropriate but my dining companion was shocked, particularly as neither of us is a regular at this restaurant and had never met this waiter before.
Food was overall average. I am all for supporting small local businesses but I shan't be back here for a while. I would caution anyone else considering patronising this establishment to beware. ???
When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes.
BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers.
I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience.
Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one. ???
Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.
The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.
All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about ??20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special ??7.95 menu.
thoroughly recommend ???
Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!
Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.
I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. ???With an over abundence of italian style chains in Canterbury PINOCCHIOS stands alone !!!???They offer real italian food ,cooked by italians & severed by italians in a style only a true italian can , they are fun and charming with plenty of noise and flare for the theatrical .???the food of which i have tried most is always excellent with pasta and pizza which are some of the best ive had outside of italy being only a small part of what they do !!!! i recommend the rib-eye steak with gorgonzola sauce ,wilted spinach and panfried potatoes is amazing after which i can never refuse a homemade pud with coffee complimentary limoncello drunk with the boss ....."Massimo " who make you feel like an old family friend . CIAO
At first sight you think this might be an ordinary pizza pasta restaurant. However the menu is much more varied and the owner cooks authentic Italian recipes. The steak that I had was delicious and tender covered with the freshest parmigiano that I have had in many years. If only this was nearer home I would go back in a flash.
I was disappointed with my vegetarian penne dish. The only vegetables visible were peas and mushrooms. It was only served in what seemed to be a basic tomato sauce. Lacked flavour. However, my friend really enjoyed the capriziosa pizza.
We stayed in Canterbury for a couple of nights to celebrate my Father's 60+ birthday. As we all love italian food, we read on Tripadvisor about this restaurant. We were not disappointed. We were greeted with warm friendly staff, the menu is extensive and food is equally delicious. Excellent prices too. Thank you for singing Happy Birthday to Dad he has been telling everyone of the great night he had at Pinocchios Italian Restaurant. Look forward to visiting again when next in Canterbury.
Despite living in Canterbury for 30 years I have never had an evening meal in this wonderful restaurant. Canterbury has so many places to eat it is easy to be drawn to those in the town centre or that look more 'restaurant like'. However we decided to go here after reading other reviews. The food was lovely and the staff extremely helpful and attentive. It was so nice not to be hurried but I only had to look around for a waiter and one would immediately appear. Fabulous choice, reasonably priced. The wine menu too was affordable but very good - we had a lovely Frascati. We had only intended to have a quick meal but enjoyed ourselves so much we stayed for all 3 courses. On a Friday evening it was busy when we arrived at about 8 but luckily a group were just leaving so in future I would ring ahead to save being disappointed.
Absurdly expensive posh nosh. Fortunately there are occasionally special offers courtesy of groupon so keep a lookout there. The food is surely Michelin-star quality, but without the fussy pretentiousness or cringingly obsequious service; indeed there is a positively quirky, individualistic feel about the place. The setting is a small intimate dining room with a handful of tables (quite a contrast to the cavernous adjacent Whisky Room bar) and the atmosphere is relaxed enough that it doesn't seem at all out of order to strike up some conversation with the other tables. Get genial host Silvio (who clearly has a loyal following of regulars) talking about what you're eating and you could be treated to a passionate commentary on, say, balsamic vinegar selection or the challenges encountered sourcing your bottle of wine. A meal here should probably be on any Edinburgh foodies hit list; it's certainly one of Edinburgh's more "interesting eats".
JUST for a change we decided to go for a taste of little Italy just down the road in Penistone.
We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.
Thursday night and trade was brisk.
It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming.

We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.
We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks ??? a glass of white wine and a beer for me.
We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.
Decisions, decisions ...
For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio ??? mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.
For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo ??? grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.
Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.
Tina came to take our orders.
As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening???s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.
Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?
Not I.
When reviewing a restaurant that has been awarded a coveted and prestigious Michelin star naturally one???s expectations are immediately raised. This is because in culinary circles these are the equivalent of the Olympic medals. In the kitchen is Head Chef Marcus Eaves who trained under Michelin starred Aussie chef Shane Osborn at Pied a Terre which is the better known sister restaurant in Charlotte Street.
L???Autre Pied is situated in just off Marylebone High Street. A mere stone???s throw away from the chaos of Oxford Street but a world away in class and style and a great place to people watch, especially on a Saturday afternoon when the small dogs and Louis Vuitton brigade patrol the area in packs.
The restaurant???s interior is welcoming with a buzzy vibe. The d??cor is contempory with subdued lighting and a minimalist and pleasing airy environment. Tables are a little too close together which is one of my pet hates and perhaps they could benefit diners by removing a couple of them to make everyone a little more comfortable but that really was my only grumble of the evening.
There are several menus to chose between and of course an a la carte section. However, if you are really in the mood to push the boat out may I suggest the seven course tasting menu which at ??52.00 a head strikes me as a relative bargain.
We opted for the ???Taste of Spring??? menu which has to be ordered by everyone on the table. This is four courses and priced again at what I considered a very reasonable ??42.50.
We began with a wonderfully fresh white crab meat starter served with a splendid combination of tastes in the form of an avocado puree, tatziki mousse and a crispy parmesan tuile wafer. The delicate flavours mingling beautifully on the palate, indeed like a fresh taste of spring as the menu suggested. With this we drank a glass of Austrian Gruner Vetliner - a fresh and crisp accompaniment. To follow we had a plate of beautifully presented, perfectly cooked pan-fried sea bream, served with a buttery sauce, asparagus spears, pea puree and pink grapefruit. We had a glass of richly flavoured white Burgundy, Rully Vincent 2005. By special request my guest had an extra course of seared foie gras served with artichoke and a glass of Vouvray ???97 which with its slight sweetness complemented superbly. A plate of picture perfect well-flavoured Cornish spring lamb came with glazed baby carrots, pomme puree and thyme jus and served with a glass of silky smooth sensational Italian red wine - Cave Di Barro Vallee D???Aoste 2004.
I have to comment at this point that this meal was very well thought as it was balanced with portions being just the right size to avoid overload. Thus allowing me enough room to continue and finish with the set menu pudding - a refreshing citrus fruit bavarois served with a blackcurrant sorbet. A choice of two pudding wines were provided to conclude our meal. A Spanish Priorat ???06 and a Italain Vermentino Sardengna ???05. Our preference being for the latter with its sweet orchid nose and rich depth of flavours.
Overall we had a thoroughly enjoyable evening. To summarise this is a little gem of a restaurant and if you stick to the set menus I think you will leave, as I did, feeling pleasantly sated and with a bill that won???t break the bank.
Modern, smart and sexy. That???s the vibe at Alloro, a highly sophisticated Italian restaurant in the heart of Mayfair. With its patrons (who mostly appeared to be testosterone filled Italian businessman) looking like they???d stepped straight from an Armani advertising campaign. The interior is simple and contemporary, with clean lines and a use of wood throughout, whilst half etched front windows add disgression and privacy. Tables are well-spaced with starched linen tablecloths, fine-stemmed wine glasses and comfortable chairs. There is also a busy and bustling bar at the front which was packed to the gills on the night of my visit.??????In the kitchen is Turin born Executive Chef Daniel Camera, who perhaps does not have the notoriety of some of the more celebrated Italian chefs residing here. However, judging by his busy restaurant and ex-pat clientele, I expect it is only a matter of time before he is revered.

As it was such a hot and humid evening a classic Bellini (fresh peach juice and champagne) was the perfect aperitif. Our dining experience then commenced with a little pre-starter, a refreshing summer gaspacho served with fruit that at once cooled and refreshed our palate. This came with accompanying cheese and herb breadsticks, artistically wrapped in a linen napkin.??????The menu is divided into four sections. I began with a salad of crayfish with asparagus and avocado. It arrived picture perfect, with plenty of fanned crunchy asparagus spears, concassed tomato flecks, creamy avocado and juicy crayfish. The accompanying dressing being vigorous on the palate. This I soaked up with plenty of speciality breads that were regularly replenished. My guest???s pan-fried goats cheese looked mouth-watering. Presented on a large glass platter it was almost seared on the outside with a soft, luscious interior. Sitting on a bed of fresh spinach leaves, he said the softness of the cheese was interspersed with a textured crunchy middle whilst tiny caramelised onion shards added bite and texture.??????Throughout the evening the sommelier helped guide us through the extensive wine list which is renowned for having some of the finest selections outside of Italy. We began with a slightly fizzy and flinty, Cayega 2007 Roero Arneis Tenota Carretta Piemonte ??35.00. A easy drinking white wine with earthy overtones and a rich and lush interior. ??????Skipping the pasta dishes for fear of overload, we moved straight onto the main course. I had a plate of monkfish, served pan-fried with chorizo and saut??ed potatoes. Served with a saffron mayonnaise that decorated the plate like a piece of modern art. It was a hearty dish, the monkfish holding its own against the strong flavours all vying for attention on my palate. ??????My guest ordered one of the specials of the day. A duck breast cooked exactly as he???d asked came perfectly pink and thinly sliced with accompanying grilled figs adding texture. A rice salad with copious nuggets, including chives, tomatoes, rocket leaves and orange zest added a summery freshness. To drink, we had a bottle of Guidalberto 2006 Cabernet Sauvignon San Guido Toscana, ??65.00, which proved a robust full-bodied accompaniment.??????Struggling to find room for pudding we shared a hot chocolate fondant with its delectable lush gooey interior, the rich chocolate and cold vanilla ice cream pairing superbly together. Served on a rectangular frosted glass plate it came pleasingly served with berries.??????I thoroughly enjoyed my evening at Alloro. It???s the sort of restaurant one usually can???t find outside Italy. Serving authentic cooking in fine surroundings resulting in a memorable experience.???
Vivo is an ideal central location for a good value South American evening out with mates. Situated conveniently just off Oxford Street, Vivo has two personalities - upstairs its all about dining in a relaxed atmosphere whilst downstairs is an atmospheric cocktail bar complete with music and dancing till late.??????Throughout there is a bone fide Latin American atmosphere, from the Brazilian waitress to the punchy cocktail list. Upstairs the atmosphere is functional and informal - tiled walls, wooden tables and chairs, interesting low hanging lamps and plenty of candles creating intimacy. Spirited music is played and as the evening progressed it got louder which seemed to suit the ambience - I got the impression that most people were there to relax and let their hair down after the daily grind.

As this was definitely a place to drink cocktails I began with a Classic Caipirihna which is served sour with a hint of sweetness and plenty of lime - I could have drank several they were so easy to knock back. We tried several others, (purely for research purposes you understand!), including a Fruit Caipirihna, a Classic Mojito and something called a Strawberry Monkey, which apparently was sweet with a good kick of gin. There is also a short but comprehensive wine list featuring a varied and interesting selection from across the continent with plenty of choices from ??12.50 a bottle upwards.??????To eat, there is something for every appetite, from traditional Tapas through to steaks especially imported from South America. There are also several signature dishes and daily specials to try as well as a range of salads and burgers. We were in the mood for snacky food so Tapas seemed the perfect choice to nibble on with our cocktails. Keenly priced, we munched on a whole assortment, including: punchy chorizo sausage in red wine and parsley; fat, garlicky olives; and vegetarian empanaditas filled with spinach, pumpkin and cheese, served with soured cream. We also tried some guacamole, sweet potato fries and Patatas Bravas served with a spicy tomato sauce. All the while the service was efficient, hospitable and welcoming. To follow, I also tried one of the signature dishes - Moqueca-Brasilian - a casserole of king prawns, calamari, mussels, chicken, tomatoes and cashew nuts cooked in a coconut milk broth and served with rice which was superb comfort food - a cross between a soup and a stew. To finish we shared a rich and moreish pecan pie with cardamom ice cream from a choice of four desserts which were predominately South American influenced including a Peruvian dark chocolate mousse with pistachio ice cream and Cr??me catalana - a sort of Latin Cr??me Brule.??????Priced between ??5.50 & ??6.00 cocktails at Vivo are not overly expensive, although it is worth noting that Happy Hour takes place downstairs in the bar between 5pm and 8pm nightly. Maybe then after a little rocket fuel it might just put you in the mood to get onto the dance floor and try perfecting your Salsa to the pulsing Latin beat.???One of the delights of the recent refurbishment of the Royal Festival Hall has been a great gaggle of newly hatched restaurants sheltering as it were like ducklings under its wing. Admittedly most of them belong to some small chain or other and are very often of varied ethnic origins. Highly successful in this genre is Ping Pong, which has seven restaurants in prime central London locations since the first one opened in May 2005. Clearly they must be doing something right, so on our way to the Festival Hall for a concert, we stopped by for some dim sum, which is their speciality. At 6 p.m. it was relatively quiet; by 7 p.m. the place was heaving, and there was a small queue of people waiting patiently outside.
While we were choosing from the menu, the waiter brought large glasses, filled them with boiling water, and a jasmine blossom in the bottom of the glass began quite miraculously to unfold, looking dangerously like a sea anemone. There is a menu of many choices, but it is well structured into sections, so it's quite easy to find your way around. The heart of the menu is the sections on steamed and fried dumplings. The waiter suggested that we chose three of each to share between the two of us.
The steamed dumplings come to the table in traditional Chinese bamboo steamers. The fillings include squid, prawns, pork and various vegetables minced up together in different combinations and with subtly different seasonings. I very much like the rather comforting texture of these steamed dumplings, but my friend felt that some people might be put off by the slightly gelatinous feel that some of them had. Particularly delicious, I thought, was one of the chef's specials made from scallops, prawn and pork. The fried pieces are mostly like rather superior spring rolls with more interesting fillings, but there are also ones that look like seashells with carefully pleated edges.
All the dumplings come in threes, priced at ??2.99 per portion; this makes sharing interesting, and a test of your negotiating skills. The sticky rice is magnificent, delivered in a large steamer, tightly wrapped in a large lotus leaf, fragrant and flavourful. We were both surprised how satisfied we felt, and given that we didn't want to fall asleep in the concert, we decided to pass on the desserts, though I've heard the chocolate buns with whisky flavouring are very popular: those and the honey glazed ribs will have to wait for next time.
Our bill for this tasty and speedy pit stop came to just over ??15 per head including service, which was friendly and efficient. I call that good value for money.
If you like eating out somewhere a bit different that has a relaxed vibe with a modern interior Deep might just be your thing. Situated right on the edge of the Thames in a sleek new development that???s just a stones throw away from Chelsea Harbour, Deep offers a spacious and relaxed dining experience - with glass floor to ceiling windows, chilled music, and an attractive mostly white interior. Predominately a fish restaurant with a Scandinavian twist - the Chef Proprietor Christian Sandefeldt being Swedish, This together with his wife is their first solo venture, having worked more recently at The Phene Arms gastro pub in Chelsea and before that running The Aquarium seafood restaurant in St. Katherine???s Dock.

The menu is mainly fish based, with an emphasis placed on freshness. To begin there is either a comprehensive selection of seafood at market price, including Devon crab, Irish rock oysters and a seafood platter for two, and several other starters, mostly, but not all seafood based. After a light and flavoursome amuse bouche sized lobster bisque with a cognac chantilly I began with a carpaccio of salmon with crispy Parma ham, artic caviar and an roast chilli and garlic dressing. This was beautifully presented on an attractive rectangular plate, the delicacy of the salmon a good contrast to the other stronger flavours. My guest ordered a selection of herrings served with crisp bread, mature cheddar and new potatoes which was a picture in its presentation. With this he tried a glass of Aquavit - a vodka and herb based Scandinavian rocket fuel which is served chilled - has a powerful kick - and complemented the strong flavours of the herrings perfectly.
The main courses are mainly fish based but if some of your party are not big fish eaters there are other options although I think a vegetarian might struggle here. I had the steamed halibut with eggs, prawns, horseradish and parsley potatoes. This is served with an excellent butter sauce and was really enjoyable in its simplicity and freshness of flavours. A delicious white wine I would suggest you try is the French Sauvignon Blanc ???petit bourgeois??? 2004 - a perfect wine to complement fish being crisp and fresh on the palate. However, with such a choice of Aquavit on offer (19 to be precise), it seems almost immoral not to indulge in one or two. My guest ordered the ???deep??? steak and ale pie, accompanying it with a glass of claret. The pie was served in an open round pastry flan and was very well presented, although he commented he prefers to have his potatoes separate to the pie rather than as a base inside the flan.
To finish, there were four puddings - all sounding tempting and including Neal???s Yard cheeses and a cr??me caramel - I settled on a thin brittle slab of chocolate brownie with a good peanut flavour and an accompanying really refreshing to die for mandarin sorbet. My guest had the caf?? Latte pannacotta served with a ball of chocolate ice cream. He said the coffee flavour was strong, just the way he likes it and the pannacotta was light and all very enjoyable.
Deep is a restaurant not yet fully discovered and I would recommend a visit for the herrings and the aquavit alone. It is set in a wonderful position and there is also a large bar with views over the river and a terrace which would be perfect to sit out on during the warmer months. Either grab a taxi or walk the 15 minutes from Fulham Broadway tube to work up a good appetite.
Known to locals as the Mucky Duck, the Black Swan used to be a real hairy bikers' pub. It was recently acquired by Geronimo Inns who must have spent an absolute fortune on the most amazing and imaginative transformation. Nothing has been left unconsidered, from the gardens to the decor and furnishings and most importantly, the state-of-the-art kitchens, presided over by?? Mark Blatchford, formerly head chef of Toast in Hampstead and SoHo House, New York.?? There is a good sized bar area and the emphasis is on comfort with big sofas for lounging around.

Blatchford is a keen advocate of local produce and I was delighted to find that his meat comes from my favourite Surrey butchers,?? Conisbee, who farm their own herd of Sussex breed cattle as well as sheep on the nearby Polesden Lacey estate. Blatchford is clearly a keen exponent of the art of garde manger, as everyday the kitchen makes up Kilner Jars filled, for example, with potted salmon or potted ham, served with a sharp home made piccalilli. There are also smaller so-called 'deli-jars' with tempting spreads such as brandade of cod, or chicken liver parfait which are served all day with wedges of fresh home baked bread for an amazing?? ??2.00!! The lunch menu hovers between lighter dishes like Eggs Benedict, trad British dishes like Shepherds' Pie, and must haves imported from the main dinner menu. Their fish and chips is already becoming legendary, particularly on account of the 'cyder batter' and the pea pur??e.

We had a most enjoyable dinner the other night and came away excited at the prospect of many return visits - can't wait to try Sunday lunch!. The starter of jellied ham hock?? was yet another example of garde manger skill, a lovely marbled effect making the presentation visibly effective. The glazed leek and wild mushroom tart was notable for its most delicious short pastry, but I remained unconvinced that the filling had really been cooked off properly. Even so, the flavours were excellent.
The main course rack of lamb was pink and tender under a crispy herb crust and the boulang??re potatoes demonstrated the kitchen's depth of proper culinary practice. The veggie dish was cannelloni filled with butternut squash gratinated with goat's cheese. Even a sprinkling of pine nuts could not conceal a want of variety, particularly of texture - the dish was much of a muchness. I'm probably being ultra hard on this because everything else was so darn good! Roast cod came with big succulent flakes and just crunchy puy lentils. Incidentally, all the garnishes were well chosen and added to the unfussy visual impact of their respective dishes. Conisbee's 28 day hung rump steak was full of flavour and the chips were really superb - what a difference to a dish really good ones make! The B??arnaise sauce was another triumph of mainstream culinary skill, not lost out here in the Surrey sticks.
If you have room left, don't miss out on the voluptuous Hot Fudge Sundae - deep chocolate and toffee, warm mouthfuls vying with cold ice cream - delicious! The Frangipane Tart was a bit dull - needed more sharply defined almond flavours - but underneath its crisp topping the Cr??me Br??l??e was?? smooth and rich. From an expertly conceived wine list, we drank several bottles of a very nice Chablis, reasonably priced at ??21.00, and a bottle of Argentine Malbec that partnered my steak brilliantly. Service was friendly and efficient and there was no shortage of willing staff.
For the benefit of our many overseas readers may I first explain the location? Middle Temple is one of the Inns of Court, where barristers and judges have their chambers. The Inns are arranged much like an Oxbridge college - you enter Middle Temple from the hurly-burly of Fleet Street, past a porter's lodge into a calm enclave. La Grand Marque occupies a former library building and it is comfortably furnished - the bar with armchairs and sofas and the dining room is hung with antique paintings of historic legal personages.

There's a fine breakfast menu and in the bar there are all day snacks as well as more substantial dishes ranging from tapas plates to Boeuf Bourguignon and British favourites like bangers and mash. But it was the restaurant menu that we were interested in.?? Chef Del Barrett's table d'hote menu is normally priced at ??19.50 for two courses or ??25.00 for three, although at present there's a special Christmas menu at ??32.50.
The wild mushroom soup brought back recent memories of a late autumn where fungal trophies were in abundance -?? this soup exuded a delightfully earthy, forest aroma. A carpaccio of smoked halibut was generous and fresh flavoured. I then tucked into a tender roast partridge which came with all the trimmings, especially appreciated were the pears cooked down in red wine. A tranch of salmon was rescued from the ordinary by a piquant coating of chilli crumb crust and some nicely presented garnishes of spinach and mash with a lively sauce flavoured with fennel and saffron.
My guest was American and had never yet experienced a full blown English Christmas Pudding which she really seemed to like. My chocolate tart had a very good rich filling but the pastry was impossible to get one's fork into. I hoped that this was only a temporary setback.
There's a good wine list with some twenty wines priced under twenty pounds as well as some superstars such as a 1998 Aloxe Corton for ??45.00! Service was exemplary by Polish waiting staff - where would we be without them???
At the moment the building is swathed in scaffolding, but when this is removed in the New Year, La Grande Marque could be all set to become a charming little destination.
In recent years, the distance food is transported from producer to plate has shockingly increased by around 50%*, and even a simple roast dinner could have travelled over 24,000 miles before being eaten*. With the political and economic focus turned firmly towards the environment, many restaurants are now using local suppliers in order to reduce potential food miles. The Glasshouse restaurant in Lyndhurst, The New Forest, is one of the restaurants in the UK actively working to reduce food miles for customers by sourcing its produce locally to produce a sumptuous and exciting menu.
Located in Pikes Hill, Lyndhurst, the newly opened restaurant with a world-class chef has sourced the best of ingredients from Hampshire and Dorset to create an innovative menu, which in turn has boosted the local economy. Chef Richard Turner comments; ???There are a wealth of delicious ingredients in and around the New Forest which are of the excellent quality one would expect from a restaurant such as The Glasshouse. By reducing the food miles of the ingredients we source we are not only getting deliciously fresh ingredients, but working to be more environmentally friendly in the process.???
Restaurant Manager Matt Magee has had positive feedback from current suppliers who have noticed a rise in profits recently due to businesses wanting to use local produce. He says; ???Our suppliers are reporting that they have had a noticeable increase in business from local companies wishing to use suppliers in the area. Many of them have had profit increases as a result. A year ago people were more concerned with the cost of products than boosting the local economy, however this has changed recently and we???re proud to be part of this change - and getting better quality produce in the process.???
Suppliers to The Glasshouse are welcoming a change from large businesses being profit driven to being more environmentally aware. Claytons Farm supplies free range eggs to The Glasshouse and the eggs travel just 11 miles from the farm to the plate. Owner Phillip Shepherd comments; ???It???s nice to see big companies dealing with small suppliers like us. Our produce is free range and healthy and our clients know that they???ll get a fresh quality product from us, which is worthwhile when serving quality meals to customers like The Glasshouse is doing.???
Because local suppliers to The Glasshouse are seeing their profits increase, some are now investing into eco-friendly business practices themselves. New Forest Spring Water, who provide bottled water to the restaurant (travelling only 18 miles) have changed their business plan in line with recent trends: ???It???s not just ???food??? miles that matter, but ???product??? miles too and we???ve seen quite a change lately thanks to clients jumping on the environmental bandwagon. This has meant we are now investing into systems which will make our bottles completely reusable, thus providing an environmentally friendly solution,??? says Rodney Gregg. ???The increased business from companies such as The Glasshouse has made this investment possible.???
The Glasshouse Restaurant is open Tuesday to Saturday for lunch and dinner. The delectable three course set menu is ??30 per head, offering superb value for money for the finest local ingredients served in a contemporary atmosphere. For more information and to view the menu, visit www.theglasshousedining.co.uk or call 02380 286129.
We quite often drive past this little country house hotel and, seeing a recent sign advertising the reopening of the restaurant as a Bistro called the Adam Room, we thought we'd give it a try. The hotel is a very popular wedding venue but there's a separate function area so wedding guests do not impinge on the normal dining facilities. French windows open onto spacious lawns with distant tennis and squash courts. It would be a great little place for a weekend break - within 20 minutes drive there's Denbies Wine Estate, Wisley RHS gardens, and three important National Trust properties including Polesden Lacey just up the road. And right now there's a veritable Hallelujah Chorus of nightingales on Bookham Common!

There were four menus on offer: A la carte, two Table d'Hote menus (??11.95 lunch and ??13.95 dinner) and the chef's 'signature menu' featuring two crab dishes for a modest ??12.95. Mind you, that all adds up to some 30 different starters and mains - how do they do it? we wondered.
An unusual starter was cold roast leg of lamb, (??6.50) with a very nice sweet pepper salad and plenty of well dressed rocket leaves. There was something about the spicy crusted edge of the meat that made us think that this was not last Sunday's roast making a final appearance. Standard squid rings came in a nice crispy batter with a few bits of salad described as being of Thai origin. More ambitious was a neatly presented trio of crab on the signature menu. A coffee cup of crab and cognac consomm?? was so full of crabby bits I had to ask for a spoon; there was a crab cake that was a trifle burnt, and a fresh tasting crab and mango salsa in which the mango led the tango.
I nearly had the Ni??oise salad because the menu blurb sounded such an accurate rendition of this often traduced dish, but I was on the crab menu, so I had a crab and cockle risotto. The rice was good and quite creamy and the whole thing tasted more of cockle than of crab. Risotto is featured on all three of the menus, either with seafood, (but not more crab!), or with minted peas and asparagus. The fillet of beef was generous and tender and its fondant potato professionally done. The duck breast could have been pinker, but the accompanying slow cooked fennel and shallots were really flavourful. My wife enjoyed her rack of lamb chops and an interesting touch was the fingers of grilled polenta.
Puddings were excellent: chocolate fondants with perfectly molten innards; a copy book apple crumble with lovely light custard and even the plate of fruit was handsomely set out. The wine list is quite good, though not much out of the ordinary until you go above ??20. Service was both friendly and professional. I thought they might do better to simplify their offering to two prixe fix??e menus: the chef's signature menu and a single table d'Hote covering both lunch and dinner. All in all The Adam Room deserves more custom and support from local people as well as from visitors.
A colleague and I had a dreadful experience whilst staying in London, when I decided to eat at the Tootsies Restaurant in Belsize Park, (196-198 Haverstock Hill). When the food was delivered it was not only late with the drinks items missing, the food itself was terrible burnt offerings. Yet to make matters worse, when the bill arrived, it was the wrong price, meaning that I had been overcharged. I asked the female personnel serving why the food bill was higher than the actual order, as was informed that there had been a 12.5 percent service charge added to the bill.
I was extremely unhappy about the situation since the service was dreadful, but more importantly I had seen no notification that the Restaurant would be adding a 12.5 percent service charge. After I returned home, I complained to the company Head Office (Clapham House Group Plc), writing to the Chief Executive (Mr Campbell). I also spoke with the Restaurant Manager, who informed me that a service charge DOES NOT! Have to be paid. Service charges can be removed from the bill at your request, however, the Restaurant did not inform us of this since they clearly did not want us to know and be aware of the situation.
I contacted Camden Trading Standards about the situation. They informed me they would investigate, since it is unlawful not to print details of a service charge, which should be displayed as prominently as the prices charged for the food. They have investigated and thus sent me a letter (dated 2 July). Camden Trading Standards made a 'test purchase' at the Restaurant and found the Restaurant 'did not have the service charge displayed on the menu' as legally required.
The Restaurant have been advised about their 'duty to notify consumers of any charges', and have agreed that this will be attended too and thus rectified.
Do not be caught out and overcharged any amount of money for a supposed service charge, YOU DO NOT HAVE TO PAY IT! If it is displayed and legal, you can request that it be removed from your bill. If it is not on display, the organisation is breaking the law as required of them. Either way, don't be forced to pay money that is not necessary and report any organisation not complying with the law.
Call: 01262 603767.
Open: Nightly from 5pm.
Accessibility: All on one level, with wide doors. The toilets are at the back of the restaurant and involve negotiating a small step.
Vegetarian: Yes, a good choice on a separate menu.
Family friendly? Very. High chairs are available for the toddlers, plus plenty of attention paid to youngsters by the staff.
Parking: Free ??? on the road directly outside.
Bruchetta: ??2.95 Toasted crusty bread served with tomatoes, basil, garlic and artichokes
Fungi Al Algio: ??4.25 Mushrooms flamb??ed in olive oil, soaked in white wine and garlic with a cream sauce.
Nicoletta's Pollo Bella: ??9.95 Traditional dish. Chicken cooked with potatoes in a tomato sauce, pasta and herbs.
Lasagne: ??7.95 Handmade with fresh layered pasta, home-made meatballs, buffalo mozzarella and basil.
A birthday is always a good excuse for a meal and having spotted Bellezza in Bridlington a few weeks earlier I had earmarked this Italian restaurant for my special meal out to mark my forty-something celebration.
The menu is a great advert for rustic Italian food, with descriptive words such as "hearty", "chunky" and "unique" dotted throughout the menu. However, the statement "for the brave" at the end of some of the dishes made me think that the food portions would be sizeable ... and I was not disappointed.
Our table for four was situated at the centre of the restaurant area and gave us an ideal site for people-watching both inside and out.
After being warmly welcomed and promptly taken to our table, we were given a comprehensive menu and pointed towards the specials board.
A bottle of house white (Verdicchio Classico at ??9.99) was promptly ordered and proved to be a such a good choice for the adults, another was ordered later on in the evening.
Starters, shared between our group, consisted of Melanzane (aubergine, ham, tomatoes, garlic and parmesan cheese), prawn cocktail (big, succulent, fresh prawns and crispy salad) and garlic bread (huge). These three dishes were all declared to be packed full of flavour and enough to keep us going for the whole evening.
My wife opted for ravioli filled with lobster, served in a rich white wine sauce. At ??9.95, this was good value, especially as the portion was, again, on the hearty side. Having begged a couple of the ravioli parcels from my good lady, I thought I should have picked this classic dish, but when I was presented with my choice of Nicoletta's famous lamb special a few moments later, I knew after the first succulent mouthful I had opted for the right dish for me. The melt-in-the-mouth lamb, which had been slow-cooked all day in rosemary oil and garlic, was perfectly complemented by the rich and slightly peppery cream sauce.
The other two in our party shared a huge cheese and ham pizza (well, they are children), and cleared their plates within minutes.
After a requested break, we started to look at the sweet options, but all we could manage between us was a zingy home- made lemon mousse and a couple of liqueur coffees. The kiddies were quite content to pick at a surprise sweet tree that was brought to our table by the owner with her compliments ??? a lovely touch to end the evening.
We all declared we had thoroughly enjoyed the meal. The ambiance of the restaurant, service and food quality were top notch.
To top the evening off, the bill came to just over ??60 for the four of us, and that was including two bottles of wine, lots of soft drinks and coffees. It was excellent value.
Bellezza is a relatively new venture, and a lovely place to enjoy good, wholesome food in welcome surroundings. Well worth a trip to Bridlington for.
Type: Rustic Italian ... just like mama used to make (according to the owner).
Quality of food: Top notch.
Atmosphere: We went early, but it soon got busy.
Service: The staff were extremely pleasant and helpful.
Value for money: Exceptional: prices were good on all food and beverages.
Best for: A great meal out for families, couples or groups, and it won't break the bank.
Would you go again? I have been since and it was still excellent.
This is the first review i have ever written as I'll be honest, most places I've visited I have been relatively satisfied and havent felt the need to complain or write a review. So naturally this does give a slightly unbalanced opinion as its much more likely that any reviews will be a negative one.
Howver in light of this i still feel compelled to share my experience at Don Giovanni as i can honestly say this is one of the worst restaurants i have been to in Manchester. The food looked like it had been prepared at base bottom price and was something out of a high street frozen food store yet the price of the meal was extortion.
The portion sizes were tiny and although i cant complain about the staff the atmosphere inside was appalling, we were a party of 8 and hidden round the back near the kitchen / toilet area and was completely isolated. I'd have felt better if we sat round the back of the restaurant in an alley outside it was that bad. I can honestly say i will never visit this restaurant again. I hope this review helps and i realise its extremely one sided but i can only reflect on my experience. ???We are always left with a good feeling after eating at Julio's.???The menu is excellent with varied specials, the staff are friendly and attentive and the food is priced at a decent rate.???The early bird menu is very good value for money
Ok so firstly our table was at the window, not a big deal as no one can see it but we were literally on top of the couple beside us.
Garlic bread was a real let down, very doughy and our local take away does a better job. I think there also was a ration on the garlic too!
I had rice while OH had pasta, his was just ???ok??? but not as nice as mine apparently although chips were really nice.
My rice was eatable, but not that warm and not really up to the standard of a restaurant when I can make better risotto at home and I am not a chef!
Older couple beside us had pizza, eat most of it but said it wasn???t up to the usual standard, waitress took plates away and I could see her saying to the other girl in charge (couple could not see) see just laugh and rolled her eyes - great customer care.
Girl in charge lifted plates, noticed I had ate a quarter of mine and asked was it ok, I explained nothing really wrong with it to complain about but nothing right either. She just hmmm and walked away. Cheeky brat.
??35 in total and we went to McD???s on way home. Says it all.
Would I be back, nope, would I recommend, nope.
Recently I enjoyed a delicious meal when I visited Gigi's Italian restaurant with my family for a special meal. We were very impressed with the restaurant. As soon as we walked in the door we were greeted by very friendly and welcoming staff. The decor and furnishings in the restaurant are beautiful and the whole place oozes class. The food was absolutely EXCELLENT! We all found the food to be delicious! Between us we ordered different dishes from pasta to meat and all were so flavoursome. I highly recommend the haggis ravioli - I have never tasted pasta like this before it is a must! We shared a variety of different desserts between us-all fantastic! I would very much recommend Gigi's as it has a great atmosphere, lovely staff and amazing food! I will definitely go back!
Second time at Gigis. Went with the family - 2 adults and 2 children. The adults used the Groupon voucher. I had the antipasto to start and it was a large portion and excellent quality. Followed up with the haggis ravioli, which was excellent, if not on the small portion size. My wife had prawns which were good. She had a pasta dish which was good and better portion than my main. Kids had pasta bolognaise from the kids menu which they both finished. Finished with Tiramisu, which was light and tasty.

Overall enjoyed the food and didnt feel at all rushed. Will definitely be back.

Staff were attentive and helpful.
Buonissimo! GiGi's is one of the best Italian restaurants i have been to. Italian is my favorite cuisine so i have been to a fair few! The decor and atmosphere is very inviting and the staff are very friendly, warm and attentive. The food is just FANTASTIC! So much selection, reasonably priced and great attention to detail, the presentation of everything was top notch. I would recommend this restaurant to anyone, it's newly established and already doing so well with such high standards. I wish GiGi's every success for the future. I will most definitely be going back. :-)
went to Gigi's for the first time at the weekend, was lovley resteraunt and also lovley food. only downfall would be the service and price. there was 4 of us that went for dinner, we did have to ask how long our main and desert would be. Waitor forgot to order out 2nd drinks order which we had to remind him about. Would also say that food is slightly over priced, especially the location it is in. appart from that had a great night.
Little Italy, 21 Frith Street, London W1 (020 7734 4737). Meal for two, every second Wednesday of the month, ??120??????It is a cold, wet winter's lunchtime, but inside Little Italy on Soho's Frith Street there is palpable warmth which has nothing to do with central heating. It is the second Wednesday of the month and by tradition ??? a very new tradition, but a tradition all the same ??? that's the day the restaurant belongs to Elena Salvoni, as it once used to every day of the week. Elena, tiny, silver-haired, neatly dressed in black as ever, is the great Soho ma??tre d', and has been for seven decades. Yes, seven ??? she is 90. She is a??link to the kind of old Soho that people like me, who are nowhere near old enough to remember it, like to claim nostalgia for. She ran front of house at Caf?? Bleu during the war, and then took over at the famed Bianchi's (on the site of what is now Little Italy),, moved to Escargot for another couple of decades before being given a berth at a??restaurant named in her honour, Elena's L'Etoile in Charlotte Street.
Elena has stories like MPs have indiscretions. She looked after Michael Redgrave when he was on leave in the Second World War, brought Ella Fitzgerald's dinner to her dressing room when she was performing at Ronnie Scott's, was friends with the Python boys when they were poor, and remained friends with the likes of Sean Connery when he became rich. She was a part of the old Soho of Maltese hoods and hookers from the East End called Spanish Betty, and drunks who needed looking after. Her 90th birthday last year was celebrated in the press, and though she had stepped back to only overseeing the lunch service, she made it clear she was happy to die in harness. The management, Corus Hotels, decided it was an "appropriate" time for her to retire, which is the kind of thing middle managers do to the English language.
But Soho has a long memory. In her Bianchi's days Elena worked with the grandfather of the family that owns Little Italy (and Bar Italia next door), and when they heard what had happened they asked her to come back to oversee lunch on the second Wednesday of every month. And so she does, in her tidy black two-piece and steel-framed glasses, and her regulars come back as well. The mood is warm, familiar and embracing, though anybody can come and everybody should.
When the space reopened as Little Italy a decade or so back, it was tight and noisy, the walls crammed with black-and-white pictures of crooners, but the food was always good. I used to go there for great rustling plates of frito misto. Though it was never cheap ??? it still isn't ??? it always delivered. Since then it has expanded and is now rather plush. Upstairs there are seating areas in studded sea-green leather, and shiny walls tiled in a tiny mosaic of shimmering white and jade.
It's fancy, though the food is far less so. It is a reliable solid Italian that has served a particular louche, British public over the years. There is a lunch menu at ??19.50 for three courses, and from that a starter of hot grilled smoked mozzarella oozing across the plate with a cherry tomato and olive salad and anchovy mayonnaise did not feel like the budget option. That said, crisp curls of deep-fried calamari served in a boat made of greaseproof paper was worth the extra expense. Main-course pasta dishes are huge bowls of carbs, cooked so they still have some bite and give, dressed with lots of the advertised ingredients, be it a dense, gamey ragu of wild boar, hunks of lobster or a scarlet sauce of tomatoes cooked down to their essence. An escalope of veal came breaded and served on the bone, with a half of muslin-dressed lemon. None of this is likely to rock you back in your seat. But it will feed you very well indeed.
If you have room and commitment, order their innocent-sounding apple tart, a depraved confection of crunchy amaretti-based crumb, caramel sauce and, for appearance's sake, a little apple, surrounded by cr??me anglais. It is one of the last indecent experiences in a much-less-filthy Soho. Most of all, bask in genuinely old-fashioned service and the attentions of Elena, who will always make you feel she is pleased to see you. Because she is.

46 Brewer Street, London W1 (020 7096 2096). Meal for two, including wine and service, ??120??????Mele e Pere means "apples and pears" and, unwittingly, the name is apt, for there is a certain neither-one-thing-nor-the-other mood about the place. It is a prime central London restaurant, with a bill to match, which manages to deliver a??neighbourhood vibe. It is a loose-limbed neighbourhood joint upon which the baggage of its West End location weighs heavily. You can eat some nice things here. But you can also eat things that make you wonder what they were thinking.
I expected something a little more consistent. The chef, Andrea Mantovani, was previously head chef at Arbutus, a few streets over in Soho. There are a growing number of places like Arbutus turning up now, but when it arrived in 2006 (later to be joined by sister restaurants Wild Honey and Les Deux Salon) it was a low-key revelation: really good, classy food, with no stupid service flummery, lots of wines by the glass and half carafe and a bill that doesn't make you feel like you're paying off the national debt of a bankrupt Balkan nation. I??am regularly asked to recommend a reasonably priced quality place, and invariably Arbutus and its siblings are on the list.
Mele e Pere isn't quite ready to join them. Partly it's the space. The ground-floor, over-lit reception with its huge displays of glass apples and pears lends a little too much formality to the whole experience. It feels like arriving at an over-blinged private bank. Downstairs is a large basement room which is slightly hard and chilly, less in temperature than mood. The menu is, as the name suggests, Italian, but very much in a think-you-you-cope-with-us? sort of way. There is very little in the way of comfort food. Octopus, fennel and blood-orange salad or hand-chopped (raw) veal or grilled razor clams or tripe ??? which amounts to half the starters ??? are hardly crowd pleasers. From a list of what I imagine are supposed to be canap??s, deep-fried olives stuffed with a little chilli are a dense, ripe pleasure. Snails served in their shells in the bourguignon style, with pecorino and parsley, feel like a non sequitur. The crumbled Italian cheese does not give an Italian spin to this most French of dishes.
A starter of sweet, soft, red Sicilian prawns with a fresh dice of carrots, tomatoes and onions gets a big thumbs-up. A tripe stew with grated parmesan is simply not all there. It has all the musky, deep stickiness that you get from long-braised cow's stomach, but the sauce is just too sugary. Tripe cooked like this needs a big, bold peppery kick and this didn't have it. (Simon Hopkinson makes a brilliantly fiery tripe stew; he once gave me a Tupperware box of it as a thank you for taking him on a review. Witness my wonderful life!)
The one self-conscious lurch towards comfort was the appearance among the pasta dishes of that discredited old stager spaghetti alla carbonara, which these days you are more likely to find as a pasta option on a Pizza Hut menu, where it will slip effortlessly from mouth to the already furred linings of your arteries. I wanted to be reminded exactly why it could be a classic, and I wasn't, not quite. When you start picking around for the bits of crisped bacon as though they are a reward, something is up. It should be luscious, intense and, courtesy of the raw egg used to make the sauce, very rich. This was dry; Italian chefs have been shot for less. Another dish of rabbit with carrots and black olives had a great big depth of flavour, but was also, as bunny can be, dry in places.
We finished with a warm, frothy zabaglione which lacked a boozy kick. Apple tart with cinnamon ice cream was better. Best of all was a single scoop of Amalfi lemon sorbet, a little dish of sunshine. With a couple of pear bellinis and a ??28 bottle of bog-standard Chianti we were staring at a????135 bill, which is a lot of money for a meal that does not leave you patting your tummy contentedly and giving thanks to the gods of Italian cooking. It's easy to see that the kitchen can do better than this, can be more reliable and pleasing. Frankly, it had better be all of those things, and soon, because it's trading in a very crowded, unforgiving market.
on???t they have enough Italian restaurants round Brompton Cross? Undaunted, the owners of Papillon ??? a rather useful French restaurant, we always thought ??? have recently re-named it, and re-launched it as an Italian. So, we wondered, why might you choose it in preference to, say, Daphne???s or Kicca ??? just two of the many establishments it has as near-neighbours.


The initial impression on entering is that little has changed from the Papillon times, (Indeed, the light fittings go back even further, to the days when these atmospheric corner premises were kitted out as an offshoot of Mao Tai.) The staff are still remarkably numerous for the scale of the establishment, and friendly and efficient too.

The menu, however, presented as a large single sheet (with an extensive, mainly Italian wine list on the verso), is rather confusing. You could pick your way through it to order a conventional three or four course Italian meal, but ??? with much of the space given over to petits-plats (so to speak) ??? you get the impression that that???s not really the intended path.

Our not-especially-hungry party of four copped out of the choice dilemma by ordering a ???a selection of four antipasti???. It transpired that one was in fact supposed to choose which antipasti, but as this was precisely what we were trying to avoid, we left it to the manager. We ordered a couple of pasta dishes, and some pork belly too. Supplemented by some very decent breads, this turned out to be quite enough for four light appetites.

Quality was almost invariably very good, with the pasta turning out to be quite a highlight. San Daniele ham (sliced in the dining room) was also particularly impressive, as was a dish that, if it wasn???t that trusty old warhorse melanzane alla parmigiana, tasted very like it. The crispy pork belly ??? totally unlike your typical gastropub version ??? was very good too.

We should perhaps have stopped at that point: puddings gave the impression of being an afterthought. Overall, however, if no bargain, this corner site remains ??? for our money ??? one of the most all-round-likeable establishments in this pricey part of town.

Mele e Pere means "apples and pears" and, unwittingly, the name is apt, for there is a certain neither-one-thing-nor-the-other mood about the place. It is a prime central London restaurant, with a bill to match, which manages to deliver a neighbourhood vibe. It is a loose-limbed neighbourhood joint upon which the baggage of its West End location weighs heavily. You can eat some nice things here. But you can also eat things that make you wonder what they were thinking.

I expected something a little more consistent. The chef, Andrea Mantovani, was previously head chef at Arbutus, a few streets over in Soho. There are a growing number of places like Arbutus turning up now, but when it arrived in 2006 (later to be joined by sister restaurants Wild Honey and Les Deux Salon) it was a low-key revelation: really good, classy food, with no stupid service flummery, lots of wines by the glass and half carafe and a bill that doesn't make you feel like you're paying off the national debt of a bankrupt Balkan nation. I am regularly asked to recommend a reasonably priced quality place, and invariably Arbutus and its siblings are on the list.

Mele e Pere isn't quite ready to join them. Partly it's the space. The ground-floor, over-lit reception with its huge displays of glass apples and pears lends a little too much formality to the whole experience. It feels like arriving at an over-blinged private bank. Downstairs is a large basement room which is slightly hard and chilly, less in temperature than mood. The menu is, as the name suggests, Italian, but very much in a think-you-you-cope-with-us? sort of way. There is very little in the way of comfort food. Octopus, fennel and blood-orange salad or hand-chopped (raw) veal or grilled razor clams or tripe – which amounts to half the starters – are hardly crowd pleasers. From a list of what I imagine are supposed to be canapés, deep-fried olives stuffed with a little chilli are a dense, ripe pleasure. Snails served in their shells in the bourguignon style, with pecorino and parsley, feel like a non sequitur. The crumbled Italian cheese does not give an Italian spin to this most French of dishes.

A starter of sweet, soft, red Sicilian prawns with a fresh dice of carrots, tomatoes and onions gets a big thumbs-up. A tripe stew with grated parmesan is simply not all there. It has all the musky, deep stickiness that you get from long-braised cow's stomach, but the sauce is just too sugary. Tripe cooked like this needs a big, bold peppery kick and this didn't have it. (Simon Hopkinson makes a brilliantly fiery tripe stew; he once gave me a Tupperware box of it as a thank you for taking him on a review. Witness my wonderful life!)
Inviting Italians who live here to come out to an Italian restaurant can be a daunting prospect, at least when we're talking those who can cook, and cook well. They have very specific ideas about how things should be done and don't suffer indifferent or lazy food easily. Believe me, you don't want your guests complaining that they would have eaten better at home.

So when I asked an Italian friend to try the new Hostaria del Piccolo in Santa Monica, I knew I was taking a chance. But the restaurant does share the same owners as the beloved Piccolo Venice (not to be confused with Il Piccolino in WeHo). That's a pretty good recommendation in itself. As it turned out, I needn't have worried. The food here — pizza, pasta and more — really tastes like Italy, comforting and familiar. Normale, as an Italian would say.

The Venice restaurant has the advantage of an adorable location, on a small street just off the Venice boardwalk. Anyone nostalgic for a buca or small family restaurant will feel right at home there with the kitchen in full view. Hostaria del Piccolo is housed in a contemporary building at the corner of Broadway and 6th Street. It's much larger, built out in a sleek contemporary style. Prices are lower too.

Once we were seated in the front dining room, my exacting Milanese friend immediately looked over the cardboard menu. "Interesting, for antipasti, they have veal tongue in tonnata (tuna sauce) and wild boar sausage with polenta. Let's try those," she said, with real enthusiasm. "What about fried pigs' ears or frico made with Montasio cheese and potatoes?" I wondered.

Yes and yes.

It turns out manager and partner Christian Bertolini, the slender guy dressed like an Italian graduate student in shirt worn loose over his corduroy pants, comes from the Trentino area. His parents have a hotel at a ski resort there. My Milanese friend used to ski nearby, and she found some typical dishes from the mountains there on the menu. The rich, evocative melding of grilled Montasio cheese and waxy yellow potatoes is one. That rustic wild boar sausage, bursting with juices and served with bright gold grilled polenta squares, is another.

The emerald salsa verde has a vinegary kick, perfect to cut the delicious porkiness of the fried pig's ear. Vitello tonnato, sliced roasted veal with a creamy tuna sauce, is the classic. But here, instead of roast veal, chilled slices of veal tongue fan across the plate, covered in that tangy tonnata sauce and decorated with cubed tomato and capers.

So far, so very good. On other visits, I tried the baby back ribs, which are very plain, the way they do them in Italy, accompanied by fat brown beans, a hearty and satisfying dish. Fried calamari comes with crisp tentacles in a loose, bright-tasting tomato sauce. Don't miss the mixed black and white ravioli with zigzag edges stuffed with Venetian salt cod, then fried and served with a bagna cauda of anchovy, olive oil and garlic. That's a perfect one to share with a white wine from the Alto Adige or maybe a Movia Sauvignon Blanc from Slovenia, just across the Italian border.

Waiters are comfortable in their own skins. What a relief that no one feels obligated to indulge in waiter-speak. I didn't hear "excuse my reach" or "how is everything tasting?" Not once. Servers are friendly and also efficient, eager to have you eat well. The place is kid-friendly too, with a small section of the menu devoted to "little foodies."

With its plain decor, wood-clad walls and rustic wooden tables, the restaurant reminds me of a contemporary Italian somewhere in the mountains. There's a small bar just to the left of the entrance. In the workaday open kitchen, you can see cooks open the maw of the pizza oven to slide in a round of dough. No wood-burning oven, though: Getting a permit where one doesn't already exist is virtually impossible these days.

The Hostaria makes a big commitment to pizza with a page-long list, plus more that are pizze bianche, i.e., no tomato sauce. You can also order your pizza with a gluten-free dough made from soy, rice, corn and a little potato flour, ensuring that no one is left out of the pizza fest. There's even a squid ink dough that has an intriguing funk and charcoal color.

Our Romanesco pie, one of the white pizzas, is topped with thick rounds of sausage, romanesco, roasted garlic and dotted with molten pools of mozzarella. The crust is thin but a bit neutral in flavor.

Pretty, pretty good, as Larry David likes to say in "Curb Your Enthusiasm."

Margherita is made with mozzarella di bufala as a matter of course. Mezzanota features mozzarella and ham, along with roasted potato and an egg atop a well-flavored tomato sauce.

Germano Minin, the chef and also a partner, is no slouch with the pastas either. They're cooked al dente, not over-sauced and served in Italian-sized portions, meant more as first courses than main courses. I liked pappardelle with a rich roasted tomato sauce, nuggets of mozzarella and eggplant scented with sweet basil. Tagliatelle is sauced in a fine beef ragù, and agnolotti get a lovely filling of ricotta and speck (smoked ham). Chicken lasagna made with fontina cheese is not too rich, a lighter variation on the usual meat sauce.

The handful of main courses are basic but very decent — a chicken breast stuffed with ricotta and fresh spinach, grilled lamb loin with arugula, a fish of the day — and an excellent Milanese orecchia di elefante, which would be a pounded, breaded and sauteed veal chop as big as an elephant's ear.

Desserts are kind of fun too. Panzarotti are basically ravioli with an apple stuffing and a vanilla cinnamon sauce for dipping. Pear carpaccio is cut so each thin slice is pear-shaped and comes with a mound of chocolate pudding in the middle. You can also get a couple of sweet pizzas, but I wouldn't recommend it.

The word hostaria is related to hospitality. And there is something so welcoming about this Santa Monica newcomer: The groups of friends relaxing over dinner, the clutch of locals hanging in the bar with their aperitivi — or glasses of wine. It's open all afternoon and easygoing enough that you can stop in for a pizza or pasta and basta, or a Milanese and a salad. Just what the doctor ordered.

I distinctly remember an Italian friend raving to me a few years ago about the new mozzarella bar Obikà she'd just come across in Milan where you could get bufala mozzarella still dripping with milk, fresh from Campania to the south. Now, you have to understand that in Italy, food is always regional. And although, yes, you can buy mozzarella in practically any little deli in Italy, it usually isn't super fresh and mostly it's fior di latte, mozzarella made from cow's milk rather than the much more prized buffalo, which has its own delimited production area just like a wine.

Not only was there mozzarella, my friend said, but there was burrata straight from Puglia.

I put Obikà on my list for the next trip to Italy but never got there. Obikà, meanwhile, has grown to more than a dozen locations in five countries. Two of the latest are right here — at the Westfield Century City shopping mall and at the Beverly Center in Los Angeles. Guess the founders figured a shopping mall is the closest thing in Los Angeles to a piazza. They're probably not wrong, actually, though I hate to think that's true.

Where Obikà shines is in offering a kind of fast food, Italian-style, that fresh bufala, along with excellent salumi, organic salads and a handful of well-prepared pasta dishes. The Italian wine list isn't bad either, and they make a good espresso. And all in a shopping mall. Not bad.

It's true that Nancy Silverton's mozzarella bar at Mozza was partly inspired by Obikà, but Silverton takes the idea far beyond anything the original is doing. Her menu is inventive and original, pairing familiar and unusual ingredients with the cheese to highlight its taste and texture. Obikà is more straightforward, designed for city folk who want a quick bite of something familiar.

And that would be mostly mozzarella and salumi, and I love both. I consider the time I was served an entire bowlful of fresh, milky bocconcini (bite-sized mozzarella) in Naples one of the supreme food experiences of my life. That experience can't be replicated in L.A. — we can't get cheese that fresh — but Obikà does a good job of serving up some of the freshest mozzarella around.

Obikà has the sleek contemporary looks of a caffè in any big Italian city — except where the brioche and pastries would usually be displayed at the bar, balls of bufala mozzarella bob in their milky liquid. Bufala, smoked mozzarella and burrata and lovely fresh ricotta are flown in from Italy three times a week. By the time you order, the cheeses are, on average, 48 hours old. That's fresh for us, though it would not necessarily seem so to Neapolitans or to residents of the Campania region.

But even at 48 hours old, the fresh, unadulterated cheese is pretty delicious — and very far from the typical rubbery mozzarella that's been sitting around for days. I like that you can order a baseball-sized ball of cheese and enjoy it with a plate of fine salumi of your choice. Or you can spring for the mozzarella dégustazione for two, a platter with a ball each of bufala and smoked mozzarella, plus some creamy fresh burrata. It's rare in this country to get to eat your fill of these luscious cheeses.

Taste the bufala against paper-thin prosciutto di San Daniele from Friuli in Italy's north. The ham is cut so precisely it practically melts on the tongue. Bufala has a distinctive full-bodied flavor that you won't find in mozzarella made with cow's milk, which technically should go by the name fior di latte. Because of its firmer texture, the smoked version works best with peppery Felino salame, whereas the creamy burrata pairs best with gentle pistachio-studded mortadella or culatello (the prized heart of the ham).

This part of Obikà's menu is basically an Italian picnic eaten at a table. For Italophiles, that's enough to zero in on the place as a destination, especially if you need to do some errands at the mall.

If the menu offered only cheese and salumi, Obikà would still be a welcome newcomer to L.A. But the mozzarella bar also has delicious salads generously served in glass bowls. I loved the one with bresaola (air-dried beef), orange segments, perky arugula and raw fennel, as well as one with baby lettuces garnished with cured tuna in olive oil, caper berries and olives. The salads are assembled with care and each vinaigrette is distinctive.

The big surprise is the pasta. Although there are only a handful of dishes, most are better than those at many full-scale Italian restaurants. They taste very Italian, not oversauced or overembellished. Supple handmade ravioli are stuffed with spinach and fresh ricotta. Others are made with the coveted Gragnano brand durum wheat pasta used by many top Italian chefs. Gragnano's schiaffoni is a large, tube-shaped noodle tossed in a lovely loose tomato sauce perfumed with basil and topped with dabs of melting mozzarella. Trofie, a pasta shape from Liguria with pointed ends, makes another terrific pasta dish, each noodle lightly cloaked in a fragrant pesto.

On the other hand, the antipasti selection could be more varied. While I like the fritti of fried vegetables and the mozzarella rolled in fine breadcrumbs and fried, ready to dip in a fiery tomato sauce, it can be too much of a good thing. Try the caponata, a sort of Sicilian eggplant relish, instead. The Calabrian sausage spread fired with pepperoncini is something of an acquired taste. And I didn't acquire it, at least not here. And open-face sandwiches try too hard to be enticing with too many ingredients.

Still, there are times, particularly during the holiday season, when a well-made espresso and a dreamy ricotta mousse dotted with pine nuts and drizzled with honey make a lovely afternoon or lunchtime interlude. It's not Milan, but it's close enough.


The one self-conscious lurch towards comfort was the appearance among the pasta dishes of that discredited old stager spaghetti alla carbonara, which these days you are more likely to find as a pasta option on a Pizza Hut menu, where it will slip effortlessly from mouth to the already furred linings of your arteries. I wanted to be reminded exactly why it could be a classic, and I wasn't, not quite. When you start picking around for the bits of crisped bacon as though they are a reward, something is up. It should be luscious, intense and, courtesy of the raw egg used to make the sauce, very rich. This was dry; Italian chefs have been shot for less. Another dish of rabbit with carrots and black olives had a great big depth of flavour, but was also, as bunny can be, dry in places.

We finished with a warm, frothy zabaglione which lacked a boozy kick. Apple tart with cinnamon ice cream was better. Best of all was a single scoop of Amalfi lemon sorbet, a little dish of sunshine. With a couple of pear bellinis and a £28 bottle of bog-standard Chianti we were staring at a £135 bill, which is a lot of money for a meal that does not leave you patting your tummy contentedly and giving thanks to the gods of Italian cooking. It's easy to see that the kitchen can do better 
than this, can be more reliable and pleasing. Frankly, it had better be all of those things, and soon, because it's trading in a very crowded, unforgiving market.

Five years after Pizzeria Mozza opened on Highland Avenue and Melrose Boulevard, it's still one of the toughest reservations in town. And while the pace of new pizzeria openings, inspired by Mozza's success, has picked up, no other pizzeria so far has put it all together in such an alluring package.

Mozza has it all: terrific antipasti and salads, Nancy Silverton's idiosyncratic pizzas, captivating desserts — and an all-Italian wine list of more than 50 selections. The ambience is pretty great too, buzzing at all hours, the dining room filled with a hungry urban bohemian crowd.

Silverton helped run Campanile for years without a spinoff other than La Brea Bakery. But once she hooked up with Mario Batali and Joe Bastianich, who together own easily more than a dozen restaurants, a second Pizzeria Mozza had to be in the cards. It opened last year, not in Studio City or Santa Monica or Santa Barbara, but 8,782 miles away, in Singapore.

Now Mozza and company have spun out a third restaurant, this one on a lonely stretch of West Coast Highway in Newport Beach. It's been a while since a successful L.A. restaurateur has crossed the Orange County line. But here it is, the familiar Mozza sign looming just after Rusty Pelican, Joe's Crab Shack and Garlic Jo's.

Not just the logo, everything else looks familiar too. The Roman red walls. The milky glass light fixtures. The bare wood tables. The pounding rock music track. And the brown paper place mats printed with Italian cartoons or diagrams of office products in Italian. The menu itself is virtually identical to that of the original locale, which is what we all were hoping, isn't it?

Everything on the menu is uncannily similar in taste. Close your eyes and you'd be hard-pressed to identify a dish as coming from this locale as opposed to Los Angeles. That's due to Silverton's fanatical attention to detail. But you can't bottle an ambience or feeling, and that's where the new restaurant differs from the first one.

Tricolore salad: check. Radicchio, endive and greens are tossed in a punchy anchovy dressing (think Caesar with more oomph) with a dusting of Parmigiano-Reggiano, and piled high on the plate. Ricotta-stuffed squash blossoms are cloaked in a shatteringly crisp batter, so each bite is crunchy, soft and milky rich at the same time. Marinated scarlet roasted peppers come with a dab of tinned tuna on top, a classic Piedmontese antipasto that I've always loved.

If I could have just one of the dozen antipasti on offer, it might be the mussels al forno (from the wood-burning oven) in a fiery salsa Calabrese with a pile of thick grilled toast to soak up the sauce. That almond wood-burning oven turns out fluffy meatballs or roasted bone marrow too, both worth ordering. Chef de cuisine Emily Corliss has gotten down these and every other dish on the menu. All of the antipasti are priced at $12, which makes for easy accounting, but some seem overpriced, others underpriced. I guess it averages out, but it's difficult to tough out that price for a mere bowl of olives (from the wood-burning oven, of course).

Take a bite of the Napoletana pizza, topped sparingly with dark olives, good-quality anchovies, hot pepper and fried capers. It seems impossible. How do they do it? The crust tastes exactly — and I do mean exactly — like the one at the original, blistered and puffed at the edges with a shiny chestnut gloss to it. This is the only pizza I know where you actually want to eat every bit of the crust.

Mozza's most popular pizza, the one topped with big chunks of house-made fennel sausage, fennel, red onions and scallions with a smear of cream, is here. More compelling, though, the pie topped with thin slices of finocchiona salame, wild spinach and pugnacious cacio di Roma cheese. Another with sliced Yukon gold potato, bacon, sweet Bermuda onions and a fried egg in the middle (break the yolk and spread it around before eating) is eccentric, but awfully good.

My all-time favorite, though, is the burricotta pizza with buttery soft mozzarella from Puglia, peperonata, taggiasche olives from Liguria and a sprinkling of Sicilian dried oregano.

Of course, there are piatti del giorno (plates of the day), but whenever I go, they never sound as enticing as a pizza, though I would like to try the ribs al forno with apple cider vinegar, fennel and honey one Thursday.

The menu cautions "save room for dessert." I'd second that for Silverton's signature butterscotch budino (pudding), which plays Maldon sea salt against the sweet. Or for a bite of her fragile rosemary pine nut cookies that come with it. I'm a big fan of the moist olive oil cake studded with sultana raisins and served with a scoop of creamy fior di latte gelato, orange-honey sauce and candied pine nuts. She gets the details right. And so does pastry chef Sarah Asch. The espresso granita is just about the most perfect dessert to share after a pizza frenzy. You get the ice, a little espresso gelato and chocolate-dipped honeycomb. And at $10, real bargains.

And yet, for all that, the Newport restaurant is not a perfect replica. The setting feels wrong. The room is overscaled and feels more corporate than personal. The layout isn't as cozy. The lighting is bleary. And the big pizza oven with copper surrounding it has that overblown, chain restaurant look.

The servers are all terrific, engaged and very present. The crowd tends to very local, i.e., suburban Newport Beach, so it has a completely different vibe than the Highland Avenue restaurant. There are more big tables, fewer couples. It's not dark enough to be romantic. The bar seating isn't as intimate either, and doesn't seem particularly inviting. At the L.A. restaurant, a seat at the bar is coveted.

It doesn't often happen that the spinoff is as compelling as the original. It just goes to show you can replicate all the elements and yet the magic, that unknown element that animates the restaurant, can be missing in action. And that's what makes Pizzeria Mozza more than just a place to get a great pizza. Maybe the Newport Beach branch needs more time to develop its own mojo.

Maybe we're expecting too much. It's a fascinating conundrum, actually, how to replicate the soul of a beloved restaurant. Does there exist a second or third or 10th restaurant as spirited in every way as the original?

Yet, hands down, this is still the best pizzeria in Orange County, measured on every level — crust, toppings, the other dishes on the menu, wine list, service. I also suspect this is just the first of many to come.
Monday nights at Vincenti, the Brentwood Italian's chef (and now partner) Nicola Mastronardi turns out some terrific pizzas in addition to the regular menu. I remember some of his pies with great fondness. But Mastronardi has branched out to open the smart Pizzeria il Fico on Robertson Boulevard. That's good news for fans who now don't have to wait for Mondays but can slip in at any lunch or dinner for "La Diavola," spiked with spicy housemade pork sausage, or a pizza topped with grilled chopped vegetables.

Despite the name, Il Fico is not strictly a pizzeria, it also turns out some Apulia-accented antipasti and most especially pasta dishes. At Vincenti, Mastronardi does the whole elegantissimo thing with an ambitious menu and polished and subtle cooking. At Il Fico he can tease out his inner rustic cook with grandmotherly pasta dishes and lusty antipasti, many of them from Apulia in the south of Italy, where he grew up.

Not that Mastronardi is at the new place cooking every night; he's not. Vincenti's former sous chef Giuseppe Gentile is in charge, and he's also hired a young southern Italian pizzaiolo and cook to man the wood-burning oven brought in at considerable expense from Italy.

The design-conscious remodel has been so extensive it's hard to recognize the bones of the old Michel Richard patisserie. Co-owner John Tierney, who runs the front of the house as he once did for a couple of decades at the long-defunct Muse on Beverly Boulevard (he must have started as a 10-year-old), will tell you all about the changes. Single diners needn't feel self-conscious. They can take a seat at the wraparound marble bar or one in front of the narrow ledges that run along the windows in front. There's outdoor seating too, on the small patio in front, just across from the city's — what, 137th? — American Apparel store.

Though lunch can get crowded, what with Cedars-Sinai and all its attendant medical offices around the corner, dinner has so far been remarkably quiet every time I've stopped in. Not for long, I suspect, as word gets out that you can get such enticing pizza on the WeHo-Beverly Hills border. At night, though, that stretch of Robertson Boulevard is hardly bright lights, big city. Even that tight-muscled man in a hoodie and tights who for years has been dancing obsessively on the sidewalk as if condemned to some cruel circle of hell is absent at night.

Il Fico turns out truly thin-crusted pizza from the wood-burning oven from Naples. This is not about crazy inventive toppings. Most pies are traditional and contemporary classics. There's the regular Margherita, albeit seasoned with oregano instead of basil, but also "La Campana" made with luscious cherry tomatoes, bufala mozzarella and sweet basil, both worthy contenders. And another that adds anchovies and capers, which I like very much, especially when I get a bite of salt-cured anchovy filet. Your pie comes out freckled with black spots on the bottom, the cheese gently wheezing and dotted around the surface instead of covering it in an impenetrable blanket. The tomato sauce is loose and fragrant. Impeccable.

Modern classics include a hearty Apulian pie with caciacavallo in addition to mozzarella and a topping of sun-dried tomatoes, sausage and rapini, some of the same elements that might go into a pasta dish. "La Carbonara" plops a fried egg in the middle of the mozzarella with some house-cured guanciale, black pepper and some punchy pecorino cheese. There are a dozen varieties of pizza in all, priced $16 to $18. One may be too much to eat on your own. Better order two for three or four to share, and then if you're still hungry after, another.

But then you'd be missing out on some of the other goodies, such as polpette, or meatballs with a dab of mozzarella at their heart, served in tomato sauce. Or Roman-style artichokes gently cooked with mint in broth and olive oil and paired with a scoop of creamy burrata. You might want to start with an order of olive scottate, warm, Bari-style olives imbued with the flavors of garlic, red pepper flakes and orange zest.

Pace yourself, though. There might be involtini of wood-roasted eggplant rolled up with mortadella and mozzarella. Or panzerotti, empanada-like dough stuffed with fresh tomatoes, capers and mozzarella and crimped into a half moon.

It's these beguiling antipasti, and also the salads, that add value to the pizza experience. I loved the salad of arugula with pears, mushrooms, figs and crispy pecorino in a mustard dressing, and what is essentially a tricolore, combining radicchio, endive and frisée with anchovies in vinaigrette brightened with orange zest.

Apulian cooks take great pride in their homemade pasta, and here it's all made from scratch and it's very, very good. Hearty orecchiette ("little ears") is doused with olive oil, peppery rapini and the housemade sausage. Fusilli in lamb ragu with roasted sweet peppers and salted ricotta is another gutsy regional dish. And potato gnocchi? Marvelous little bites blanketed in four cheeses and slipped in the wood-fired oven. The lasagna is atypically light layers of pasta with tiny meatballs in a Bolognese sauce.

The wine list, unfortunately, is very limited, just eight or so reds and eight or so whites, with only a few interesting bottles in the mix. And yet the corkage fee is $35 — unless you spring for a bottle from the list in order to get the corkage waived. This seems shortsighted on the part of the restaurant. If you don't have a good wine list, why not charge a reasonable corkage for those who really do care about wine?

For dessert, the kitchen keeps up the pizza shtick with one topped with strawberries, cream and shaved dark chocolate. No, thank you. That sounds about as appealing as crispy nutella ravioli in a vanilla sauce with bananas. A better choice: panna cotta with a shot of espresso and whipped cream or the excellent tiramisu semifreddo, a partially frozen version laced with crushed almonds and cocoa.

We're in dire need of Italian restaurants that break new ground, not just the same-old same-old fake Tuscan places. Here's an example from one of Southern California's best Italian chefs with a welcome Apulian spin. Come for pizza, come for pasta, come for a pretty salad or to nosh on antipasti. In this neighborhood, Pizzeria il Fico is a gift.

In Venice, Italy, friends who've met in the street will go off to drink un ombra, slang for a small glass of wine. That's the name of a new Italian restaurant that opened quietly a few months ago in Studio City. Chef-owner Michael J. Young is crazy enough about wine that he's taken courses at UCLA to learn more about it. He also picked up a lot about Italian wine working as sous chef under Angelo Auriana at Valentino way back when and with Celestino Drago at Drago Santa Monica. He also worked in Parma, Italy, at one point, which must be where he picked up his pasta-making skills.

I last had Young's cooking at Domenico's in Silver Lake almost two years ago. Now that he has his own place, he has the freedom to buy and cook what he wants. Every couple of months he redrafts the menu to reflect the season. Most nights he also has a couple of specials going, such as sea urchin pasta or heirloom tomato panzanella.

He seems to be reveling in his newfound freedom, yet it's never all about him. He's anxious to see how his customers like each new dish. I'd say he's coming into his own at Ombra Ristorante, cooking with confidence and attention to detail. He's quick to see what doesn't work, and that errant dish is soon off the menu. Ombra is more than just another neighborhood Italian.

Stop in at the Cahuenga Boulevard restaurant for a glass of dry Moscato from the Veneto or a Vermentino from Sardinia and an amuse of arancini, fried rice balls with hearts of smoked mozzarella that strings like telephone wire. His are triangular in shape, rolled in breadcrumbs and perfectly browned, his way of welcoming guests to Ombra.

Young is an easygoing and warm presence when he steps into the dining room or brings out a taste of caponata, the Sicilian relish of eggplant, onions, currants, pine nuts and capers in a sweet-sour sauce. I can't get enough of the intricately laced flavors.

Open the menu and you'll quickly realize it's not just the same old L.A. Italian dishes. You might find a crackling crisp round of porchetta redolent of herbs and garlic as an antipasti, served with a terrific house-made green tomato mostarda. One night a panzanella made with chunks of heirloom tomatoes tossed with cucumber, red onions, day-old bread and sweet basil in olive oil and vinegar impresses. I like his simple Tuscan white bean salad adorned with jumbo white shrimp and capers too. And the octopus with diced potatoes and olives. Young learned to make pasta when he worked at L'Ambasciata, halfway between Cremona and Mantova in Italy.

The pastas are excellent and can be ordered as half or full orders. Cavatelli are small, ridged pasta that curl in on themselves, like shells, tossed in a tomato sauce with Dungeness crab, spring onions and arugula. Fusilloni means big fusilli, the better to grab every bit of pesto — loose, fragrant, very green, a handful of fava beans tossed in and shaved Pecorino. His garganelli (hand-rolled tube pasta) in a spicy salami sauce is a terrific dish. So is the maccarronis from Sardinia in a ragù Genovese made with hand-chopped pork and veal — and lots of onions.

In a sea of Italian restaurants, Ombra feels very personal. That's because Young is involved in every aspect. He's the chef and wine buyer and is responsible for the look of the restaurant. The dining room is simple and minimalist — dark wood chairs, white tablecloths, the only ornamentation being vases of flowers and a panel of antique Venetian wallpaper with stylized mermaids on the back wall. When he realized the noise level was too high, he added sound panels, something I wish more restaurateurs would do. It works to mitigate the noise and doesn't cost all that much.

For a light secondo, or main course, you can't beat the tonno spiedini, huge chunks of marinated grilled tuna served with that sweet and vinegary Sicilian caponata. Rustic pork sausages grilled with fennel and grapes are first rate. And stracotto, braised brisket, is one of the best around, especially with fresh horseradish and a tender white corn polenta. I wasn't so taken with the wild boar chops special. They may be wild but don't taste much different than an ordinary pork chop.

His sous chef has been working with him for many years, and between the two of them, they're able to turn out a small sophisticated menu. But then again, the restaurant wasn't really full any of the times I dined there, which is a shame. How they will fare with a full house remains to be seen.

For dessert, stick with the simplest, such as a plain ricotta cheesecake or cantucci, the famous hard biscotti, delicious dipped in a glass of sweet wine or with an espresso. One night, he served peaches cooked in simple syrup with softly whipped cream and crushed amaretti cookies. More complicated desserts are not the kitchen's strong suit.

The chef's passion for wine is reflected in the mostly Italian wine list filled with little-known, affordable wines, such as Roccafiore "Bianco Fiordaliso" from Umbria at $36 or Colutta Refosco from Friuli at $39. Except for a few, all the wines are under, sometimes well under, $50. A good dozen are also offered by the glass and/or carafe. He also has a remarkably modest corkage fee: just $8 per bottle.

He's calling Mondays "Notte Slow," or "Slow Night," when he offers a fixed three-course menu at $35, as well as a $12 carafe of wine. Check the website for each week's menu. He also serves lunch on weekdays. Young is a real worker.

Ombra is just what it's supposed to be: an authentic Italian neighborhood restaurant from a chef-owner cooking with pride and attention in his own place for the first time. Prices are moderate, service is friendly. Opening your own place in this economy is always a bold move, but I think this is one restaurant that will make it.

The Test Kitchen — that temporary restaurant with a rotating roster of chefs — is no more, but in its place we get Sotto, a new Italian restaurant from Steve Samson and partner Zach Pollack. And it's ample compensation. The name means "under" or "beneath," and that's literally where it is, down a few steps from Pico Boulevard, in the Pico-Robertson neighborhood, beneath Ricardo Zarate's even newer Picca.

With its southern Italian menu, Neapolitan pizza and savvy Italian wine list, Sotto stakes out a claim as a new kind of Italian restaurant in Los Angeles. The kitchen could be more consistent, and the pasta and dessert sections need a little work, but all and all, Sotto could be the restaurant that breaks the L.A. northern Italian mold.

With its rustic dishes, plain décor and cozy seating, Sotto feels very like a buca in Florence or Rome. Banquettes upholstered in stripes line the walls. Tables are rough wood. And a single antique chandelier dangles over the tall communal table. That's where you want to sit if you want to see the action at the enormous yellow-tiled wood-burning pizza oven. Samson had it imported from Naples, Italy, complete with someone to put it together. It's mesmerizing watching the pies slide in and out of the oven's warm glow on a wooden peel. It takes but a few minutes to turn a round of pale dough into a pizza, bubbled and blackened at the edges, the sign of an oven that's hot enough to do the job properly.

DINING GUIDE: Looking for a good place to eat? We've mapped more than 300 of our latest restaurant Reviews and Finds, so a great recommendation is always nearby.

Fair warning: This is not the place to come if carbs have been banned from your diet. It would be almost impossible to resist ordering a pizza as they sail by practically under your nose, wafting the good smells of tomato and garlic and fresh-baked bread. Samson is no newcomer to pizza. He developed the pizzas at David Myers' Pizzeria Ortica in Costa Mesa, which were, under his tenure, hands down, the best in the county and certainly the most authentic. Pollack put in some time there too, and with that experience behind them, Sotto's pizzas show off what the two have learned about dough and working with a wood-fired oven.

Of course, they're Neapolitan in style, which means a supple crust, somewhat soft at the center, light on the toppings. The Margherita — tomato, mozzarella, basil, extra-virgin olive oil — is excellent, made with a loose, fresh-tasting tomato sauce dotted with pools of molten cheese. The guanciale has wonderful flavors of cured pork cheek with tender ricotta and a dusting of fennel powder. But my favorite so far has been the carciofini, topped with ricotta and marinated artichokes. They've got a calzone, a half moon practically big as a leg of lamb, stuffed with burrata and escarole accented with Gaeta olives and capers. The great thing is that Sotto serves pizzas at lunch, the better to appreciate the pies without the distraction of other dishes.

And you will be distracted by the small and medium plates on the menu. Samson is half-Italian and grew up with the taste of Italian food. He also did a short stint as chef at Valentino. The surprise is how gutsy Sotto's menu is, filled with regional Italian dishes, mostly from southern Italy, few of them seen in these parts much. Dishes like pig coratella, a rustic dish of pork innards sweetened with oven-dried tomatoes and served with grilled bread. Each bite carries something different. Or lamb belly agrodolce, braised in a sweet-tart sauce dosed with vinegar.

But why not start with some chickpea panelle? Nice has its socca. Southern Italy has its panelle. The fritters are fried to a warm gold, creamy inside. Or try the quite wonderful sardines alla piastra (seared on the griddle) with shaved fennel and a citrus salad. Meatballs grilled on lemon leaves are perfect for sharing, savory bundles with the sweet taste of pork. And fried calamaretti (baby squid) are the lightest, crispiest ever. What a treat.

Funny enough, pasta doesn't seem to be the restaurant's strong suit. Or at least not on my last couple of visits. The kitchen is committed to handmade pasta, and that doesn't mean the usual flat noodles but hand-rolled fusilli and Sardinian maharrones and squiggly casarecce (a word that literally means homemade).

Trouble is they're clumsy and thick, sometimes gummy or too chewy and not all that appealing, despite the unusually rustic sauces. They're not in sync with the rest of the menu. I almost wish they'd resort to some high-quality dried pasta. The one exception is the casarecce with a deep groove down the middle, the better to capture the lovely nuanced lamb ragù. Pastas are served in Italian-size portions — small enough that you can have something else after.

Make that the smashing Devil's Gulch pork chop encrusted with whole fennel seeds. Nicely cooked, it's juicy and moist, wonderful with roasted carrots and favas. Genoa-style beef brisket is immensely satisfying, with a deep beefy flavor, served very simply in its juices with a little onion and potatoes. And who doesn't enjoy a half chicken cooked under a brick? This one is a textbook example, crisp-skinned and golden. Not exciting, but satisfying.

The excellent Italian wine list was put together by Jeremy Parzen, an old friend of Samson's who once taught Italian and cinema at UCLA. A food historian and rock musician, Parven now lives and blogs (Do Bianchi is the name) from Austin, Texas. He's stuffed the list with bottles to expand anybody's knowledge of renowned and lesser-known appellations and producers.

Throughout the evening, groups of friends and customers wander in to hang out at the bar sipping "biciclettas" and amari. The crowd is actually remarkably diverse in age and style, which also makes Sotto feel more like Italy than, well, Pico Boulevard.

Come dessert, go with the cannoli. How often do you see the classic Sicilian dessert on a menu around here? These have a beautifully crisp shell and a very sweet ricotta filling. Chocolate crostata gives a bittersweet chocolate fix: It's sort of a fudge pie soft as pudding. Sheep's milk yogurt panna cotta, though, is excessively sweetened with honey, far too much of a good thing. The good thing is that you can follow up the sweets with a caffè corretto, an espresso "corrected" with grappa.

Samson and company have come up with a vibrant concept for Sotto. Anchored by the pizzas and filled out with rustic southern Italian dishes, the menu offers an authentic handmade take on a side of Italian cuisine that gets short shrift in L.A. Enough of the same old same old, here's an Italian restaurant that's proud of the south.


In days of old, those fortunate enough to ewn lan  in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Melissa Mulliken recently asked if Florence's Enoteca Pinchiorri is still as good as its reputation -- to which I replied that I cannot say since I have never eaten there. However, it was ranked 3rd in the annual restaurant roundup printed in Civilta' del Bere, Italy's leading wine magazine (they considered the ratings of this year's editions of the major restaurant guides, among other things). This is up from 4th last year, so she will be in excellent hands.

She also wondered where else I would dine in Florence, if I wanted to enjoy a memorable meal. I haven't been everywhere, but the people doing the restaurant guides presumably have. Firenze Spettacolo recently went through them and drew up a top ten list:

Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.
"Contact: Leo Porzio, Adria 2 Hotel, Via Montebello, 49, Florence 50123, Italy; phone: 011-39-55-212-086; fax: 011-39-55-215-029; e-mail: adria2@dada.it."

And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

He replies:

"Tough question, in part because not many places have wood-fired grills. Despite what one might think to look at it, PERSEUS in Viale Don Minzoni is good, and I've heard good things about the BUCA LAPI in Via del Trebbio (off from Piazza Antinori) but haven't ever been. Outside Florence, CENTANNI in Bagno a Ripoli does a good job, as do ZÀ ZA and CUPOLI in Lastra a Signa. The search goes on…"

Giles has more to say on steaks, and Indian:
"Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I spent sunsets and evenings in Fiesole (Hotel Villa Bonelli, great people). What I heard up there is that La Reggia, on the hike up to the Franciscan Convento, is considered by the townsfolk to serve up the best steak Florentine around.
"The interesting phenomenon, however, is the Indian Restaurant "Tandoori."
"Every night the place is packed with adventurous Italians trying what must be quite strange stuff for their palates. And the entertainment is a free part of the package. Monday nights features a belly dancer from Florida who studied the art in Egypt and shows it. Shows a lot, actually. On Wednesdays they have a "magician" who is really an amazing psychic. The management was quick to tell me that he isn't full Italian; his mother is Turkish. I'm still trying to get over my palm reading of last Wednesday night. Really incredible.
"Anyway, what a weird idea for Florence. And it is working, big time."

A birthday is always a good excuse for a meal and having spotted Bellezza in Bridlington a few weeks earlier I had earmarked this Italian restaurant for my special meal out to mark my forty-something celebration.

The menu is a great advert for rustic Italian food, with descriptive words such as "hearty", "chunky" and "unique" dotted throughout the menu. However, the statement "for the brave" at the end of some of the dishes made me think that the food portions would be sizeable ... and I was not disappointed.

Our table for four was situated at the centre of the restaurant area and gave us an ideal site for people-watching both inside and out.

After being warmly welcomed and promptly taken to our table, we were given a comprehensive menu and pointed towards the specials board.

A bottle of house white (Verdicchio Classico at £9.99) was promptly ordered and proved to be a such a good choice for the adults, another was ordered later on in the evening.

Starters, shared between our group, consisted of Melanzane (aubergine, ham, tomatoes, garlic and parmesan cheese), prawn cocktail (big, succulent, fresh prawns and crispy salad) and garlic bread (huge). These three dishes were all declared to be packed full of flavour and enough to keep us going for the whole evening.

My wife opted for ravioli filled with lobster, served in a rich white wine sauce. At £9.95, this was good value, especially as the portion was, again, on the hearty side. Having begged a couple of the ravioli parcels from my good lady, I thought I should have picked this classic dish, but when I was presented with my choice of Nicoletta's famous lamb special a few moments later, I knew after the first succulent mouthful I had opted for the right dish for me. The melt-in-the-mouth lamb, which had been slow-cooked all day in rosemary oil and garlic, was perfectly complemented by the rich and slightly peppery cream sauce.

The other two in our party shared a huge cheese and ham pizza (well, they are children), and cleared their plates within minutes.

After a requested break, we started to look at the sweet options, but all we could manage between us was a zingy home- made lemon mousse and a couple of liqueur coffees. The kiddies were quite content to pick at a surprise sweet tree that was brought to our table by the owner with her compliments – a lovely touch to end the evening.

We all declared we had thoroughly enjoyed the meal. The ambiance of the restaurant, service and food quality were top notch.

To top the evening off, the bill came to just over £60 for the four of us, and that was including two bottles of wine, lots of soft drinks and coffees. It was excellent value.

Bellezza is a relatively new venture, and a lovely place to enjoy good, wholesome food in welcome surroundings. Well worth a trip to Bridlington for.

Type: Rustic Italian ... just like mama used to make (according to the owner).

Quality of food: Top notch.

Atmosphere: We went early, but it soon got busy.

Service: The staff were extremely pleasant and helpful.

Value for money: Exceptional: prices were good on all food and beverages.

Best for: A great meal out for families, couples or groups, and it won't break the bank.

Would you go again? I have been since and it was still excellent.

We’re quickly ushered to a nice table near the rear of the restaurant, which has been done out to resemble a traditional Italian trattoria. There are bare walls, complemented by painted metal beams and a magnificent light fixture spanning much of the roof.

There’s a central drinking area, complete with a tiled bar and an open kitchen which instantly injects a burst of atmosphere.

We’re quickly furnished with menus and our knowledgable waiter gives us a well-briefed run-through of that day’s specials. And rather than try to sell us mineral water, he’s happy to bring a carafe of tap water – and to keep replenishing it throughout our meal, without us having to ask.

His enthusiasm for the specials menu in particular, is infectious and we both choose starters from the blackboards.

My partner plumped for the intriguing-sounding chicken lollipops (£6.50). In reality it turned out to be three skewers of chicken breast marinated in garlic butter and sprinkled with sesame seeds, and then chargrilled. It came served atop a delicious homemade flatbread and drizzled with pepper juices.

The chicken was perfectly moist with just the right amount of garlic zing. The flatbread, was the perfect accompaniment to this generous opener.

My wild mushroom risotto (£6.95), however, was made to look quite meagre in comparison (I did promise you one niggle didn’t I?) Delicious though it was, dotted with parsley and topped with crispy panfried fungi and thyme, I could have eaten at least twice the amount I was dished up – particularly for the £6.95 price tag. As it was, I was happy to dip into my partner’s more sizeable starter – despite his efforts to fiercely guard it.

Other starter choices include crispy squid (£5.75), baked chestnut mushrooms (£5.25), caprese salad (a bargain at £3.75), and Sicilian spaghetti fritters (£4.50). There’s also antipasti ‘planks’ – platters of cured meats, cheeses and vegetables (£6.85 a head) served up on hunks of wood in true Jamie Oliver-style. Nibbles include Italian nachos (£3.55), marinated sardines (£3.75) and the modestly-titled World’s Best Olives on Ice. They are pretty good, though, it has to be said. A handful of Puglian olives are served atop crushed ice, accompanied by slivers of flatbread and black olive tapenade.

Mains choices are plentiful, from pasta and risottos to meat and fish.

I opted for the ‘Happy’ grilled chicken (£13.25). (The menu doesn’t explain why the poultry is in such good sipirits, one can only assume it is free range). This supreme of chicken is marinated in thyme and garlic and blackened on the grill. A delicious tomato, olive, chilli and caper sauce brings out the best in the bird, while the side order of gorgonzola winter salad is one of my dishes of the day.

It’s a healthy serving of a variety of crunchy salad leaves (red and green), sprinkled liberally with ripe gorgonzola cheese, fresh pear and walnuts and doused in a sticky balsamic glaze. Every mouthful is a treat.

My partner went for the more traditional tagliatelle bolognese (£10.25) – a meaty concoction of beef, pork, wine and herb-packed tomato sauce, topped with crispy breadcrumbs and fresh parmesan.

Often a bowl of pasta can become samey when you get half way through, but this packed enough of a punch to keep his interest until spoon met bare bowl.

Other mains on the menu included an 8oz sirloin (£16.95), revolution burger (£11.25), ossobucco Milanese (£13.95) and fillet of fish baked in a bag (£15.95).

As you might expect from an Italian restaurant, there are a plethora of desserts, all of which sound scrumptious.

After much deliberation, I went for the Sicilian cheesecake (£4.95), a perfectly-baked mound of light and creamy ricotta on a soft biscuity base. The menu did promise it would come with candied citrus fruit but mine was only adorned with a slice of fresh lemon. It was none the worse for it, mind.

My partner’s chocolate fondant was the star of the show, however, breaking open as it did to release the gooey centre. The rich vanilla ice cream and amaretti biscuits crumbs, made this sweet nothing short of sublime.

We washed our three courses down with a couple of soft drinks and a bottle of Soave (£16.65), bringing our total bill to just over £74, which compared to what you can pay in Leeds city centre felt like good value.

The man whose name the restaurant bears was sadly nowhere to be seen.

That’s fair enough – busy fellas, these TV chefs.

If Jamie had been around, however, then I’d have delivered a succint verdict on our meal from one Oliver to another.

Pukka, mate, just pukka.

This quaint restaurant quietly serves wonderful Italian food in this unassuming location. Locals and privileged visitors enjoy authentic dishes that use liberal amounts of herbs and seasoned vinegars. Pastas, meat, and seafood dishes abound amongst a very warm and hospitable atmosphere.
IS it crazy to fall for a restaurant because of a handful of chickpeas? Tumbling around with pickled currants under crunchy stalks of grilled octopus leg, these chickpeas were smaller and sweeter than usual, less starchy and grainy. Tasting one was like encountering a goldfinch if the only birds you’d ever seen were pigeons.
Still, they were just chickpeas. Is it more logical to fall for a restaurant because of sliced bread in a basket? It was remarkable stuff, with the gradually unfolding nuances of taste that are achieved only through a slow and patient fermentation of dough with wild yeast.

But other restaurants serve great bread. So let’s blame it on the salumi board, with satiny pink and white folds of lonza and capocollo and lardo that melt on the tongue into a lasting impression of salt, pig fat and time. The meats, cured and aged in the basement of Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, are among the finest salumi in the country.

In truth, there were a dozen little tastes that made me fall for this restaurant, which opened on Great Jones Street four months ago and has become New York’s most complete realization so far of a powerful myth: the simple and convivial spot that tastes just like Italy.

That myth is an old one. You go to a small town in Umbria and find your way to some modest trattoria, or maybe a market with a few tables. Then lunch arrives, and the top of your head comes off. Meanwhile everybody around you has their elbows on the table and is acting like food this good is no big thing. And you say, why not? Why couldn’t we have a place just like this back home?

The answer could fill a book, but the abridged version is that the modest trattoria can’t exist without the town. Fantastic elemental cooking requires fantastic elements, and those have to come from the baker, the grocer, the butcher and a dozen other local trades people and merchants.

Still, the myth echoes in many places, from the pursed-lipped pieties of Alice Waters’s cathedral to the open-throated revels of Mario Batali’s pagan temple.

Very few believers have tried to live out the myth by recreating the entire Italian village. But in a sense this is what Donna Lennard and her partners have done at Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, and that is what makes it such an inviting place to have a pastry in the morning, a sandwich and a bowl of soup at noon, and a small feast at night.

First, she built the grocery, the Alimentari part of the name, which carries those earthy chickpeas, along with salt crystals and olive oil with a pepper rasp that catches in the back of your throat. The shop seems at first to be the whole show.

Keep walking. Down a few steps and past a colossal sculptural chandelier that would not look lost hanging in the Guggenheim rotunda is a bright, busy room where people are tearing at pieces of bread, eating off one another’s plates and talking with their elbows on the tables.

Every cliché of the rustic Italian restaurant is on display here: the terra-cotta floor tiles, the handblown wine bottles, the rickety chairs, the overworked servers who are always rushing to somebody else’s table. Get their attention, though, and they will reliably guide you toward the good stuff on the menu and on the wine list.

With six to eight selections from a number of producers, the wine list lets you drink your way through some bottles you might overlook on a more comprehensive list, like the spry Tyrolean whites of Garlider, or the spicy Calabrian reds of Odoardi.

The sooner you order, the faster you’ll get a basket of Kamel Saci’s breads. He makes a dozen kinds, letting the dough gain flavor and structure during a rise that lasts at least 18 hours, sometimes twice that. His bread is not something you munch absent-mindedly while waiting for the first course. It is the first course.

The Alimentari, with its $9 chocolate bars, might be too precious for everyday cooks. But it lets Justin Smillie, the chef of the space in the back (the Vineria), do amazing things with dishes that on paper sound commonplace.
COULD the clam roll become the new lobster roll? Two new Brooklyn restaurants are betting so.
It would be a return to glory: New York once supplied most of the nation’s hard-shelled clams. Canarsie Indians thrived on mollusks from the stream that became the Gowanus Canal. Nowadays, the old mill buildings and warehouses along this industrial waterway hold a salty allure for arty types; the former wasteland downhill from Park Slope is starting to look like Williamsburg.

You can experience the change at Littleneck, 288 Third Avenue (President Street), Gowanus, Brooklyn, (718) 522-1921, littleneckbrooklyn.com, an urban clam shack a cherrystone’s throw from the canal. It is run by musicians with a kitchen led by the Brooklyn restaurant veteran Alan Harding (Gowanus Yacht Club, Patois).

On opening nights for the neighboring gallery, hipsters wait for seating amid Littleneck’s whitewashed wainscoting and cute nautical doodads. Andy Curtin, an owner looking more shipmate than band mate in a beard and woolen cap, swoops about with dishes you’ll be happy to dine on: specials like huge, scrumptious, head-on shrimp, baked in salt with a touch of tarragon ($12); snappy, fascinating salads like pea shoots with bittersweet popcorn shoots, watermelon radishes and golden beets ($8). Meaty corkscrew whelks are perfect in drawn garlic butter ($1 each). Urchins are creamy embodiments of sea ($6 each).

The fabulous bicoastal oyster selection ($2 for East Coast, $3 for West) delivers bracing, diverse pleasures vividly described by the waitresses — British Columbian Kusshis have a “slight melon flavor,” Chincoteagues are “kind of lemony.”

The oysters are even better than their compadre shellfish. The eponymous clams on the half shell are tender and mellow ($1.50), but the chowder — white rather than red at this self-proclaimed New England-style shack — wants for creaminess to balance all the pepper, and the clams within it are chewy ($7). Half the bowl of big, sweet steamers ($13) might arrive shut tight, while the other half are so soft, they nearly disintegrate with handling.

The clipper-ship-size clam roll ($16) pretty much redeems the mollusk; fat-bellied fried Ipswiches burst from their griddled split-top roll. Dressed in spicy tartar sauce, the clams taste swell, though their batter, sadly, lacks crunch. Still, the clam roll trounces the mayonnaise-drowned lobster roll ($18). Perhaps we are indeed experiencing a changing of the guard.

That argument is supported by a visit to Sea Witch, 703 Fifth Avenue (21st Street), Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, (347) 227-7166, a pub named for a fabled 19th-century New York merchantman. Watery touches here include a phantasmagorical undersea mural and a mesmerizing fish tank.

You could sit all evening sipping craft drafts (grassy Avery Ellie’s brown ale, citrusy Victory pilsner) watching those fish. But you’ll get hungry at some point. There aren’t much more than hot sandwiches on this menu, but, boy, are they tasty. Tops is the clam roll, a neat little bun dressed in a caper tartar sauce and iceberg lettuce, then loaded with just-fried clams ($11). They’re small next to Littleneck’s monsters, but they’re briny-sweet with just the right balance of creamy clam to crisp crust. The bun makes it feel like fast food — but fast food of a high order.

Just as delicious is the kielbasa ($6), a nod to the neighborhood’s Eastern European remnants. Supremely garlicky and smothered in raw onions, mustard and sauerkraut, it’s not date food, but who needs companionship with a sandwich this good? Pork schnitzel ($6.50) is juicy and tender, its richness cut by tangy whole-grain mustard and pickles. The cheeseburger — a high-fat mix of short rib, brisket and chuck — is thin and satisfying ($5.50). The fries ($3) are hot, freshly cut and well salted. Even the Indian-spiced fried vegetable cutlets please ($6), with an expertly done coriander chutney.

There is no waiter service — cooks emerge with food straight from the heat. Despite the paper plates and limited menu, what they bring is such great bar food, you’ll feel like one lucky sailor.

A few drops of specially imported Sicilian anchovy sauce, called colatura di alici, propel a roasted short rib for two to a height of deliciousness that short ribs rarely scale. With a forceful crust of peppercorns and coriander seeds, and crunchy bits of meat that are this restaurant’s answer to Kansas City’s burnt ends, this may be one of the best new dishes in town. Actually, since the same meat reappears as a sandwich filling at lunch, it may be two of the best new dishes.
 Bucatini alla gricia is a classic bare-bones production of pecorino, pepper and cured jowl. It is what Romans put together when there is nothing else in the house. When it’s cooked fearlessly, like it is here, you don’t need anything else in the house. Anyone still under the impression that dried pasta is inherently inferior to fresh will be quickly and permanently set straight.

 And if that doesn’t work, they should proceed to the spaghetti with bottarga to study the way the mullet roe sauce wraps itself around every strand, sheathing it in creamy maritime intensity. On the night I tried it, I only wished that the spaghetti had had a little more snap; sometimes the pasta station here seems to lose track of time, and a bowl of noodles that should be tensely coiled is allowed to unwind just a bit.

 Not that Mr. Smillie spends his days opening packages of spaghetti. He is, after all, the chef who was fired from a doomed East Village gastropub for spending too much at the Greenmarket. (More compatibly, he also cooked under Jonathan Waxman and Dan Silverman.) Somehow in February he hunted down the ripest persimmon I’ve tasted in a year, sending out wedges of it with a grilled quail that had not a hint of the liver overtones quail sometimes gets. And he found tiny beets to plant like tulip bulbs in a snowy drift of ricotta curds, with shiny tongues of white grapefruit on the side.

 Still, what makes Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria stand out are the products made in this village-inside-a-restaurant, and above all the cured meats. When Americans first conceived the myth of the great, simple Italian restaurant back home, the one thing that was most out of reach would have been salumi of this quality.

 Ms. Lennard first entered the cured-meats business about a decade ago at her first restaurant, Il Buco, a block away on Bond Street. At the time, only a few people in the United States were trying to replicate Italian-style salumi. As they set out to study a very intricate craft, they discovered that even fewer Americans were raising the old breeds of hogs whose thick sheath of sweet, creamy fat is essential to great salumi.

 If you somehow assembled the right skills and the right pork, you could still be stopped by the law. Ask Ms. Lennard about that. In 2006, the city’s health department told her that the temperatures in Il Buco’s basement curing facility were all wrong.

 “They made my guys chop all this gorgeous prosciutto, some of it two years old, into little pieces, and pour bleach over it, and put it into plastic bags, and poor Bernardo in the morning had to throw them into the garbage truck,” she said by phone.

 Bernardo Flores, the butcher in Ms. Lennard’s village, now has high-tech curing equipment in the basement of the new restaurant, imported from Italy at some expense. To devise a safety plan that keeps the inspectors at bay, she hired Christopher Lee, a longtime salumi maker at Chez Panisse.

 The work they are doing now, with pork from some of the best pig farmers on the East Coast, is the kind of exceptional reward Manhattan bestows on people who are stubborn, tireless and have the right timing. And on the rest of us, too, if we are lucky.

Went to this resturant for valentines set menu, lovely atomosphere, and decoration was nice. Good value for money, lots of cocktails. Prawn starter was deliciuos and bread comes with it all the time so yummy. Mains was so tasty that came back again a few weeks later. Best place i have been to for ages. Filling meals. One of the walls is made out of old corks its really cool. The staff are very welcoming. Hidden jem this place, will be back again soon.
Visited Mina restaurant for the 1st time tonight (Saturday 10/03/12). We wished to eat early which was lucky as the restaurant was fully booked after 19:00. The food was excellent, atmosphere superb and the staff very friendly and attentive. The amount of phone calls the restaurant reeceived which had to be rejected was amazing â?? this amount of patrons suggests the standard is good. Could not find any faults with the restaurant whatsoever and would recommend Mina without reservations. If you like good food and great staff - then you will not be disappointed here. A must try if in Cardiff.
Visited Mina on Saturday 10th after reading reviews on TA. The restaurant is every bit as good as the reviews say! We made a mezze of the spicy potatoes, falafel, meatballs, king prawns, fattoush and garlic mushrooms all of which were absolutely delicious. Mains were grilled chicken and lamb, brilliantly cooked and very tasty. I encouraged the H2B to try the falafel (he hates chickpeas) but he admitted that they were yummy. Super fresh, super tasty, super healthy Lebanese food at a reasonable price, everyone should try Mina! The staff were friendly and attentive, the restaurant is cosy, although it did turn out to be further out of the city than I anticipated. (Lebanese beer is delicious too!)
Went there for my birthday. Lovely staff- very friendly and helpful; advising on menu choices. Chilled out, no frills atmosphere. Fantastic, fresh food with a good choice for veggies. Try the sharing mezze starter... Lovely! Would def go again if back in the area.
We had a very tasty plate of mixed starters, all of which could have been home made and tasted fresh and delicious. This was followed by grilled lamb and chicken. Succulent meat and grilled vegetables made for an excellent meal washed down with a Â£12 bottel of Beka Valley wine from Lebanon. ( They also have Chateau Mussar 1997 for Â£32 - a bargain if you are a wine buff) Â£50 for 2 for 2 courses including bottle of wine.
This is a small and friendly place, colorful red paper table cloths - not a fine dining establishment - but if you want very well cooked fresh Lebanese food for a reasonable price it a place to go.
The food was fantastic - really exciting flavours and textures and beautifully cooked. The staff were attentive (but without being intrusive) and helpful (not patronising). Very good value for money as well. We've been living in Cardiff for a long time now, but had never eaten here before - we will be coming back!
Visited friends in Cardiff and they took us to Mina's Lebanese Restaurant. First time for my wife and me - no Lebanese restaurants as far as we know up in the top left hand corner of Wales where we live - so it was a new experience for us. Friendly welcome. Bright and pleasnt ambience. The menu is easy to follow, you know exactly what is on offer. One word of advice though, if you are expecting a meal with a sauce, make sure you choose one with the word 'sauce', otherwise it comes to you dry, but if that is what you want then fine. The food was excellent. The experience for us will be lasting, the Lebanese wine was fruity. We highly recommend a visit if you fancy something unusual but very tasty. Given the chance we will definitely return.
Nice cosy restaurant with good food and a nice atmosphere. I am a meat eater so i was a bit wary about what would be on offer but was pleasantly suprised. With the menu changing frequently (check the web site) i can thoroughly recommend it.
My favourite restaurant in Cardiff! Great food and reasonably priced.
My husband and I have been regular customers at Canteen since day one. Every time we visit, which is probably monthly it just seems to get better and better. This weekend our daughter who is living in London was visiting, first request as she walked through the door can we go to Canteen. The Tagine plus other stuff was amazing, as were the starters Imam Bayeldi and Chilaquiles.For our daughter the sticky toffee pudding alone was worth the drive from London. Great service, new decor and fantastic food all for Â£20 per head.Unbelievable.
We dined here on Saturday 4 th Feb,booking recommended . This restaurant is in a little street a short taxi ride from the city centre. The starter,main course and desert were all delicious and tasty. The Morrocan tagine was presented with a lovely selection of mezze ,all vegetarian. There was a meat dish for those who needed the carnivore option .Take your own wine they only charge corkage. We wished there was a place like this in North Staffs we would eat here lots.Wayne and his great team were welcoming and obviously enjoy providing delicious food .We wish you all great success and hope we come back.
This is an absolute gem. if you havent been you are seriously missing out. clifton canteen caters for everyone, vegetarians, meat eaters, vegans, ceoliacs so you can all happily eat together without feeling like the awkward one. 11 of us ate recently and not one of us could fault it. everything was perfect, flavours, presentation, temperature of food, service. we didnt leave a thing. the byo policy for wine makes it even more great value. you wont be dissapointed - promise.
Food is superb, innovative and carefully prepared. Heaven for vegetarians, and meat eaters who dare to enter, lavishly praise the one meat dish on the menu - menu changes every month. Can be noisy on busy evenings.
I eat regularly at the Canteen (even thought Im not vegetarian) and recently I had my Christmas birthday there with 19 friends. The food, as always, was superb, and the staff were welcoming and friendly - even though we pretty much took up half the restaurant. I cant recommend this place enough - its unpretentious and glorious - and now that you can bring your own wine, its even better value for your money. We stayed all night and the bill worked out at Â£20 a head. Now thats something to write about...!
I've wanted to go to Canteen for ages, but never got round to it. So glad I finally did! The last time I chose a new restaurant for our group of friends it was an unmitigated disaster so I had a lot riding on Canteen being good... and it was SO good! As a group of 4 we managed to choose most of the dishes between us, with the intention of trying each others. That idea soon went out the window once everyone had their food and realised they didn't want to give a single mouthful away. The staff were friendly and knowledgeable, and the chef seemed genuinely interested in our opinions. I cant wait to go again and try a different menu (in the nicest possible sense - the one we chose from was fantastic).
Amateur Chef goes Pro- something many fantasize about but few try. Here it is a great success. Consistently delightful meals over many visits. The premises are plain with no frills, the love in the kitchen and friendly service make this a special evening every time. Great for vegetarians and meat eaters alike!
Book !! I don't think you will get in otherwise . If you have any pretensions about being a foodie , then try this place ! Delicious choices , who needs a menu with dozens of dishes when just 3 starters and 4 main courses , all cooked at the restaurant will be enough to satisfy you . Wonderful flavours , beautiful food .. And a meat dish to please non veggies ( most dishes are vegetarian ) Desserts !!! Yum yum !! And a half price special on the wine to boot ! Wonderful value , worth going to Cardiff just to eat here !!
Went here after our 2 daughters were sent by me to check it out as i am not that fond of Italian food. Lovely atmosphere with chef cooking a few yards away so you can see it is all freshly cooked. The waitresses all had smiles on there face`s and were really helpful. I had the James Bowman which was pasta in a white wine spinach sauce and covered in 3 different cheeses, when it arrived it was HUGE and tasted scrumpcious...i was converted, my wife had spagehetti in a tomato sauce i believe with seafood inside. We had a portion of garlic bread between us and 2 soft drinks and the bill was a few pennies over Â£17, great value in a place that looks and feels like you are in Italy. If you are looking for fine dining this may not be for you, if you are looking for real Italian food which comes with a smile then eat here.
I could sit here all day just drinking the cappuccino - the best in Cardiff! The food is simple yet delicious and the staff are very friendly. I have been coming here for almost 10 years now and am happy every time I visit. Hope to spend a few more countless hours here for another few years.
Having read all the fantastic reviews on Cafe Minuet, we went to have lunch. The garlic smell was beautiful and the place was full of students. This is a tiny cafe with an open kitchen and an old italian man cooking so it all looked great. We ordered a spaghetti alla vongolle and a baked cheese and spinach pasta. When it came it was a massive bowl full of over cooked pasta with no visable clams salt or pepper or herbs.what it did have was a bitter taste of wine and tomato. (vongolle doesn't have tomato but does have clams)! Having watched the chef what he does is pre cook all the pasta which he keeps in plastic buckets as the order comes in he takes a hand full and puts into a frying pan then adding the sauce which is why all I could taste was wine it hadn't cooked through. Cheap food you get what you pay for, when leaving waitress asked was it all good when I replied no she shrugged her shoulders and walked off, the chef also heard this and choose to ignore it.
We've been frequenting this tiny little gem of a cafe for 20yrs or so now and consider Marcello its owner and chef to be a national treasure. Marcello has officially retired these days but is never far away and the tradition carries on with many of his team carrying the baton. Famous for fast and tasty take out such as their "turkey slippers', the sit down menu is a real treat, inspired by Marcello's passion for opera and classical music. Famous dishes include the Penne James Bowman and the Chicken Diavolo but their signature Minestrone soup also goes down a storm. Mini-duet dishes and the best pizza in town can all be savoured in the very cosy arcade cafe, boasting memorabilia form the great operas, composers and stars of the Cardiff Singer of the World competition. There is even a letter from James Bowman which takes pride of place - or did before the redecoration -maybe it's shifted now, I'm not sure as it's hard to concentrate on anything but the food. On days when rugby comes to town Cafe Minuet does all days specials and is very much part of the city centre atmosphere. I've eaten there since I was a student, it's great value and still very much part of the fabric of the city.
Having lived in Cardiff for two years have just found this fantastic little cafe. Both my wife and I are vegetarian and there was plenty of choice on the menu for us. We both chose different Spinach dishes and both were delivered quickly and very hot. The flavours of the dishes were amazing. All told I would recommend this venue to everyone. The only downside is that it is small so if going for lunch get in early.....
Tiny, crammed in tables but authentic, delicious Italian cuisine.
A small resturant in the arcade oppersite Cardiff Castle serving italian food. Have now been there several times and never had a bad meal, all have been either good or very good. I usually have the seafood salad with whitebait and calamari. It's great, so fresh and served within 5 minutes of ordering. Friends have some dietary requirements and a quick chat with the staff and the sauce was cooked to order with less oil and no cheese. Most expensive dish we had, my seafood salad but at Â£7.50, not really expensive!
Even though I like to discover new places to eat, I very rarely write reviews. Cafe Minuet however was so outstanding that I feel impelled to tell the world about it! I went here with two friends on Saturday lunchtime and was blown away by the standard of the food. I had the pancakes filled with spinach and ricotta and topped with the most delicious tomato ragu sauce I've ever tasted. It was topped with cheese, baked in the oven and served with delicious garlic bread, perfect for dipping in the sauce. My partner had a pizza with dough which was clearly homemade and again a delicious topping with whole rashers of bacon. Most dishes don't exceed Â£7 but I would quite happily pay double for the standard of food served here. If you're looking for glamourous surroundings then this may not be the place for you, but if you want tasty bargainous food in a unpretensious, cosy, bustling atmosphere then go to Cafe Minuet. I promise you won't be dissapointed!
Wonderful little Italian restaurant/cafÃ© in the heart of Cardiff. The food is excellent and if anything under priced. The atmosphere can often be a little arty and there isn't a massive amount of room but if you're looking for great service and great food for a great price then please give cafÃ© minuet a go.
Absolutely great evening, lovely Italian atmosphere, the food was just purely mouth watering. Venue was set very nice, great for kids and couples, i think they should seperate the families and couples though as the little ones are busy running in and out of the play center too much it can be quite distracting...
Thoroughly enjoyed the Potted Pig, the staff from initial phone call to their superb manner of looking after us at the table, with attention to detail, a good sense of humor and a full understanding of the menu. The waiter who looked after us really did make the evening most enjoyable. As to the food.... the offal breakfast starter of chicken liver, duck heart, black pudding, kidney and fried egg was delicious! The mains were equally good, rack of ribs, the best chips and coleslaw, the belly pork with carrots and cabbage, so tasty and terrific value. Large bottle of chilled water replaced and not charged for. All with a bottle of Chenin came to Â£51.00 really good value and a splendid evening, can't wait to return!!
I tried offle for the first time on my 30th birthday here. Better than I thought but had to try not to think about what I was eating. A limited menu but what they have is very good.
We had lunch there and we enjoyed crispy lamb, kidneys, rare beef sandwich and welsh mullet. It was really delicious. For lunch you can have 2 courses for 10Â£.  The staff is very pleasant and attentive. It is also funny to eat in the vaults of a former bank. We would love to go there again as soon as possible.
This was the second visit to the Potted Pig, choosing it as a venue to celebrate my wife's birthday. We visited on Friday 17th February and managed to get a table quite late in the evening. As I've found before it gets booked up early, so I grabbed what was available. There was a warm friendly welcome from the staff. It may have been because our booking was a little late, but we felt a little hurried from this point onwards. A friendly Irishman came to take our order within a couple of minutes of being seated and before we'd been offered a drink.... The food arrived very quickly, I had the cuttle fish to start which was very good, although my wife had the 'duck hash' which looked (and unfortunately tasted) very dry and overcooked. It consisted of a small heap fried, shredded duck with a fried egg on top. She was disappointed with it however my started was quite nice. I had the whole Bream for the main course. I don't think Bream lends to being served whole, its a round, deep fish which fills the whole plate and unfortunatley mine was very over cooked so soggy. It was served with brocolli and sauteed potatoes, which were a little burnt on the outside and undercooked in the middle. There was a bernaise source poured over it but only a splash and not enough given the size of the fish. I usually enjoy Bream but this dish was not prepared well. My wife also had fish - Gurnard which was served as a fillet and came with a nice sauce containing shell fish. It was OK but she felt it was a little dry and served with no vegetables, despite being reassured by the chap that it wasn't nessary to order a side dish, as it came with potatoes. We guessed it may have been cooked earlier in the evening and then kept warm under a grill or hot plate so had dried out. Given how quickly it came out after the starter I reckon this is probably where it fell down. We decided not to stay for a dessert or coffee and left a little dissapointed.....On the plus side I must add that my first visit was good, but I stuck to what they seem to do best - the grilled red meats. I had the pork belly which was great, and the offaly good breakfast which was very different and very tasty. My friend had the aubergine scotch egg which again was quirky and tasty, and the steak which he said was one of the best he'd ever eaten! The evening was relaxed with reasonable pauses between courses, and good quality, well prepared food. Nothing to fault really on that occasion. After my first visit being so enjoyable I left after the second feeling like I'd over-egged my first visit to my wife. It's a shame, but the two visits seemed such a contrast. Would I go there again?......., probably, but I'm not in a huge hurry to return.
The Potted Pig is what pub food aspires to be, fresh, tasty and put together with imagination. I dined with my family for Sunday lunch. The menu is short, just a few choices for starters and mains, but something for everyone. There's a great selection of wines to choose from too. Service was very friendly throughout. It is popular with families, and it's probably best to book ahead.
I stopped at this Cardiff eatery for Sunday lunch after lurking for several days and was not disappointed. The menu is compact but both the dishes I had were delicious (lamb starter and rib of beef main). Food was fresh, plentiful and reasonably priced; the staff were cheerful and welcoming, making it a very enjoyable meal. The restaurant is located in the basement/vaults near to the Castle at the top end of the shopping precinct and was busy at lunchtime, but did not appear crowded. The patrons were mixed, ranging from small and extended families to couples and groups of friends, and the happy, relaxed chatter around did not prevent you from hearing those you were with. I'm glad I managed to dine here and thoroughly recommend it to others.
I have been to the potted pig plenty of times and have been very satisfied. However, after my last experience I am now disappointed and will not return. For example, the quality of the food has deteriorated and the restaurant now has the ambience of a mortuary. Moreover, the seating arrangments is far too close to other tables and our waitress appeared to have been an aspiring comedienne too.
Went here with a group of friends in January after hearing so many good things about it. The fact it took us weeks to manage to get a table suggested it should be good. The waitress was excellent, very friendly & enjoyed a joke or two with us, & provided some good advice regarding the meal choice. 
I had the short beef rib for starters & the pork belly for main course & both were cooked to perfectio, it was a lot of meat & not much accompaniment, only carrots & some green leaves with the main, potato being extra but this suited me fine. Even adding a potato side, the food was still reasonable for the quality. 
Between 7 of us we tried a lot of the dishes on the menu & no one had a negative word to say about any of them. The Celt lager from Caerphilly was also very enjoyable, wish it was served on more restaurants. We will definitely be returning here soon as it was a great meal in a great environment. Just be advised to book well in advance to ensure you're not disappointed.
Having eaten at the PP quite a few times before, I was disappointed at the quality of my food this time. I had the beef and horseradish sandwich with chips. The chips were over-cooked with very little potato left - most of it was just "crunch". Parts of the beef were overly chewy, which made it very difficult to eat with the thick bread that the PP uses. Also, they had dressed it with so much horshradish that it overpowered what I am sure should have been very tasty beef.
Had a very good lunch here recently. I ate the new York strip...taste and value was good. wine was good value and overall experience was excellent. I will return.
I visited this restaurant with my wife and another couple on the recommendation of my tailor whose wife is Italian. The food was excellent. Not a lasagne or bolognaise in sight but authentic seasonal italian dishes. The choice on the menu might not be to everyones taste but if you want to really experience Italian cooking then you will not go far wrong visiting Casanovas.
I have been here a few times since it opened a few years back. Lovely owners, know their stuff and remember you. The food is faultless and they know their wines. Worth a visit if you fancy no fuss quality dining.
Cardiff's best restaurant- genuinely Italian and an ambiencewhich is friendly and welcoming.
Casanova has the most distinctive menu in the capital city. And before we go any further it has the absolute best and simply exquisite panna cotta - I know, I have researched extensively! (The Potted Pig is a close second.) I never thought it was possible to dream about cauliflower puree - but I swear it is so. This chef does amazing things with vegetables as well as with meat and fish. Excellent produce is combined in an imaginative and constantly changing menu, backed up with a very, very good wine list. The small dining room is not over fussy, but is pleasant and the hum of lively conversation makes for a convivial atmosphere. These guys are passionate about food and want to share it so it's just as well they have an online store where you can purchase all your favourites. Highly recommended, take your time and have a lovely lunch or evening - don't rush it. At Casanova as you might expect, it's all about savouring pleasures.
This is a homely restaurant with excellent food - a cut above the standard Italian fare. It's on the pricey side but worth it.
I had never noticed or heard of Casanova until recently however it was a pleasant surprise to find, hidden away on one of the side streets of St Marys St! The menu is relatively small and simple; about 5 or 6 options for each course with set prices Â£14 for a main (although lamb had Â£2 supplement). Wine cost Â£17 upwards. The food and the service was good, with fresh bread to nibble on whilst waiting. I had paradelle pasta with king prawns & wild mushrooms, my friends had the lamb with chorizo mash. The mash was delicious although there seemed to be a bit too much meat in proportion to mash and disappointly no vegetables. I'm not sure if the menu is seasonal but I shall return in the spring to find out!
Friendly service but not very attentive. Left to our own devices for the best part of an hour after finishing our meal (and wine!) when the restaurant wasn't even full. The food was well-presented and the wine was surprisingly good. I would recommend the Lacryma Christi.
Went yesterday for lunch after first discovering place about three months ago. From outside it does not look special and not being able to see in. Make the effort and go through the door. You will not regret it. A second memorable occassion. Warm service coupled with excellent "tasty" food - brilliant. This is not your "Brit Italian" with chicken or steak covered with a sauce or pizza but unusal (to us anyway)different Italian food served wonderfully well. A lunch menu two course for Â£10 is amazing value, has to probably be "Best in Cardiff". Small cosy restaurant full for a lunchtime has to show that it is producing the goods. Cardiff City centre is virtually a no go for us in the evenings but if we were to be in town, we would make a point of going here to have the delights of exploring their evening menue. Keep it up Casanova we love you!
lunch yesterday confirmed our last visits view that the incresing popoularity of this restaurant has led to a dramatic decline in both the standard of the food and the quality of service.this was about our fifth visit over six months and i'm afraid it will be the last-.this is no longer the best italian in the city centre. what a pity!!
Casanova's is a dream of a place, and it was great to come here for a birthday treat having visited several times before. We were surprised to see it so busy for a Monday night. The service as always was very attentive and good. The starters were fantastic. I had belly pork served with black puding and puy lentils. Not very bigh, but a taste that was out of this world. My mother has the cold meets and cheese, which was a very generous helping and very tasty. For main I had Cassoeula, a pork and cabage stew which was delicious, but a tad salty. The meat just fell apart. Now for the dissapointing bit. My mother had pasta with prawns and wild mushroom. The pasta wasn't cooked and the overall taste was too garlicy. Having eaten here before I know they are capable of much better with the pasta. Still, overall a lovely night and will definitly be visiting again.
I'd booked this restaurant with it being close to the Stadium and our hotel. The menu looked great with a great variety, something for everyone - although I was then contacted a couple of weeks before to say that as it was going to be busy due to the Rugby, there was a set menu and I would need to pay a deposit (which was fine as it was the same with most of the restaurants in the area). They sent me a copy of the reduced menu, but again it covered off most of the selections we wanted. We arrived a bit early but our table was ready anyway - its a great location, with a micro brewery inside and big screens and quite loud (but not overly) music. It was packed which was great for the atmosphere. Our starters arrived within minutes of us placing our order, along with a bottle of wine and a beer. I had the calamari which I'm sometimes a bit nervous of in case they are overcooked, but they were very nice. For my main I had tiger prawns with asparagus and spaghetti - there were a good number of prawns which were lovely, although the pasta was slightly overcooked. The others had pizzas which were very thin and were all delicious. We didn't have dessert as were all quite full. We weren't rushed from our table and the staff were all very friendly and helpful.
I use this pub fairly often and love the layout and the fact your sat in the middle of a Micro-brewery/ There were in the process of brewing beer when in there and wonderful smell of hops, allied with the smell of the cooking from the open kitchen this was excellent. Love their Beer and always a reasonable price, esp during Happy hours. Only complaint this time was that the gents toilets were in a terrible state , which i can put down to a member of public who should be ashamed of themselves leaving it in that state. I reported it the staff and there did close that toilet off. always a warm welcome here and friendly staff.
Went for a staff night out, food and service was amazing. Pizza are in my opinion the best cardiff has to offer. Since the first visit have taken others here for the lunch a great set menu and reasonably priced. Won't be eating another pizza from anywhere else as they also do takeaways.
The food here was superb, and amazing value for money. At just abover standard pub price, you indefinitely get high quality restaurant food which is cooked in an open kitchen to the side of the lower dining area. One of the most amazing things about this place was the fact you sat in the middle of a microbrewery, which the product of you could order at the bar. As well as standard beers and ales, there were certainly some exotic ones too, like orange and coriander ale! Definitely worth going!
Good range of beers brewed on site. Great pizzas. Love the mussels. Somewhere a bit unique in the city centre. Great place for a midweek meal with mates.
Beers brewed in house - pilsner and wheat beers very tasty - good prices - excellent pizzas - good service - friendly atmosphere.
We were a group of 7- 5 meals arrived after a while. The remaining didn't appear until most of us had finished. They had obviously been forgotten as they were uneatable as they had been hanging around for 20 minutes. The bill was wrong and had to be adjusted twice. This is the second time we've had a problem with this restaurant. We only returned because of its convenient location.
Zero degrees is a brilliant bar-restaurant-brewery. It's big, with space, but also very friendly. And does more than just great beer. Everyone talks about the mango beer, but the regular Pilsner is a good starting point, and the orange and coriander beer shouldn't work, but it really does. You can eat from the bar or get table service upstairs, and upstairs has a nice atmosphere. Friendly, prompt service ensures a welcoming atmosphere from staff and the menu is extensive, with a stunning range of pizzas along with pastas and some other dishes. Really do try the calamari as a starter - nicer than any other calamari i've tried. A great place for a midweek night out - although I believe it gets busy at the weekend.
I love Zero Degrees!  This microbrewery chain brews some amazing beer, the Mango beer is my favourite. The venue is really something with an industrial feel and brewing equipment and pipes all around, you almost feel like you are in the middle of a brewery...well you are! They do very good pizzas too and they are reasonably priced!
Excellent 1st experience of this put great beer at a reasonable price. Will be returning soon.
Just stayed a night in Cardiff. Wanted a decent place to eat phoned couple of my local friends they suggested Moksh as they know my fussy eating habits. Booked a table the restaurant was crowded I ordered the gourmet taster it was out of the world. Lovely selection amazing presentation no wonder the chefs won so many awards. The service was friendly too. I recommend this amazing restaurant.
Not your ordinary Indian with a unique semi fusion style menu. Food quality is very good and generally highly recommended - if a little on the pricey side. This however didn't detract from our enjoyment. We went on a busy evening (no booking) wait time 30 mins but we were reasonably well looked after during this period.
Again trip advisor gets it right absolutely fantastic food. The 'hanging' prawns were out of this world! Shame that the service is so poor but doesn't stop you enjoying such great food! Friendlier staff, service with a smile and this would be a perfect place.
Such a nice indian, food is delicious, best i've ever had. Only complaint is staff aren't very friendly, or maybe they just don't understand english?Pricey but worth it.
Being travelling in the united kingdom lately tried most of the profile Indian restaurants in simple words the best food I have eaten so far. Try the gourmet taster it's worth it ..pleasant service. And the presentation of the food could beat any restaurants. Undoubtedly a wonderful experience. Booked a table for tonight too.
Went here while away for a romantic weekend lovely atmosphere food was amazing well worth the money. The presentation of the food was lovely will defiantly be visiting here again when next in Cardiff.
Dined at Moksh on Friday 17th February. Have wanted to try the place for a while. It did not disappoint. I had Moksh 3 ways (vegetarian) to start, and my partner had the Chef Special. Both were presented beautifully and tasted really good. For main course we ordered a Chicken Tikka (dry) and Chicken Balti with some pilau rice and extra bits, and a Cheese and Chilli Naan. Again, the main courses were really well presented and tasted great. There was plenty of chicken in the Balti and the Tikka was really well cooked. The ingredients looked fresh and good quality. The bill came to just under Â£50 for the two of us including 2 drinks and we felt it was money well spent. I would recommend this place to anyone and will return with friends in a few weeks.
Hi there, i am Chetan from India residing at Delhi & Mumbai.I had traveled to the UK for my IT work and stayed 3 months in London.Being a foodie i tried all the super fine dining restaurants like Benares,Rasoi and i even enjoyed Quilon.I guess all this are Michelin star restaurants. Then i traveled to Cardiff, i did carry my spice in case i dont find any good restaurantts.Few of my colleagues recommended 3 best Indian restaurants in Cardiff.They were good but i thoroughly enjoyed MOKSH.They were good with their super presentation and the lovely taste of India.I would recommend to try the Laal Maas,its hot and nans were great too.Never to forget the innovative desserts.No wonder the chef is pretty famous in the UK and won so many awards. I honestly think they deserve a Michelin or More. On behalf of my friends Rahul, Sachin, Swar & Shiva i thought i will let everyone know about my experience in the UK.
I was told to go to Moksh by one of my friends who likes their food and everything they said was true. Service - discreet and first class. Food - apart from a restaurant in Bournemouth, this has to be the best i have ever eaten. Presentation - first class. Cleanliness - cant fault it. Decor - cool and relaxed. If you are ever in the Bay, this is the place to wine and dine.
This reastuarant was wonder full, Me and my partner had a dinning, we had the staters sheek kabab and jerk chicken, it was freshly cooked and ammazing flavours. The service is outstanding and very ploite. We definitaly visit Moksh again and again.......
Went with colleagues, was not busy. Welcomed by the waiters, pleasant atmosphere. Starters were well presented but there was no flavour to relish as flavours in the starters and Main dishes. Poor wine selection. Aceeptable we thought but when the bill arrived it was completely unacceptable prices for the food and wine served. Not Again to this place. This is a rip off. I am not in Central London was my friend's comment.
I was very impressed with both the food and level of service. However, we dined just after 6pm, so it wasn't very busy at the time. The food is well presented and tastes absolutely amazing. I will definitely return. It's not cheap, but you pay for quality food that has been put together with real care and skill. If you want to eat gluttonous piles of greasy slodge, then this is not the place for you.
We had our first visit here on Saturday evening and it will not be our last. The food is lovely, fantastic flavours and beautifully presented. Unlike other reviews we found the service to be very good, dishes we were unfamiliar with were explained, side orders suggested, drinks replenished when we needed them, all done with a smile...what more do you need? One of the nicest meals out in Cardiff we have had.
Good, but not great. Lovely food but the service let it down. Don't think it's worth the extra 20/30 quid that it cost rather than to go to The Star of Wales or Cinnamon tree.
Food was well prepared and attractively served. We found the concept of the nouvelle combination dishes a bit disappointing as it left you wanted more of the good stuff and getting every element fresh and coordinated is clearly a challenge to the kitchen. However, nice surroundings, well spiced food and definitely worth a visit.
Very slow service, not as expected very very expensive. Not again.
Lovely meal, we hoped the service would have got better but no ! Such a shame the service is soooo slow, second time none of us had what we ordered we where all waiting to start our meal ! Shame hope they can solve this problem ?
My partner and i went here on a Saturday night. We arrived just before 7 and it was already quite busy. Plenty of money has been spent making a lovely eating environment, low lighting, background music and nice dÃ©cor. The service was excellent, very friendly staff, and a nice explanation of meals as they're presented. My view of the food echoes other reviews. In short it was really nice. A welcome contrast to the meat,sauce,rice indian food most of us are used to. Our only major issue was the speed. In general i like a but of a wait between courses. Say 20 mins for a starter, ten for a main (having already received your order) and ten for a desert. Unfortunately we waited around half an hour per course which was a shame. A couple next to us were much quicker so i like to think it wasn't a common issue and the waiter apologized. It was all worth the wait though!
Obviously similar to the Mint and Mustard, but Chef Anand George has upped his game. Great service. Excellent food. I would highly recommend all of the dishes we ordered. The Raan Akbari was delicious. Modern Indian cuisine at its best. Made our next reservation before we had left!
Its not original ! And the mint and mustard are doing this but better ... the food was not bad .. but i was disapointed i expected something more .
We flew from Cardiff in February ,the flight was later than usual 0900 a little later than most times we have left. Most charter leave around 0600. The service in the Echo Bar is abismal, over priced for poor quality food and drinks. Cardiff Airport leaves a lot to be desired, there are very few flights a day in comparison to what there was in the past. It is no wonder that SSP do not care with the reduced number of passengers passing through it just falls in line with the rest of the Airport. Tables are not cleared or wiped on a regular basis and Rolls etc on display do not look appertizing and slow service. Its a shame as passengers have no choice but to use it or the Costa Coffee adjacent again owned by SSP. Not a place we would go to from choice.
On a three day break to Cardiff we decided to visit Oriental Garden in Cardiff. After eating a small part of our meals we could tell the cicken was dry and didnt taste of chicken, we then changed to eating vegetables, but later on that night we both started to feel unwell and i have been sick Friday night all the way through Saturday and had stomach issues. It was the only meal we had since breakfast, so my personal advice would be to avoid unless you have the food standards agency with you.
Staff are rude, food is cold and tastes horrible. I asked for curry sauce to which the reply was 'we are not an indian restaurant'. Well every other chinese buffet/restaurant I've been to has plain curry sauce so I don't see what the problem is! Will never eat here again!
Great for group events with something for everyone, good value.
I had a very strange experience here. The waiting staff were practically clearing away the buffett from around us. I've never felt to much pressure to hurry up eating a meal. Just plain rude and inconsiderate, given the price we paid. Avoid this place.
In the adjacent Dragon Centre, this Chinese restaurant seems very popular with local people, as well as visitors. We booked a table for lunch, as there were 13 of us. As we had mentioned that one of the group was celebrating his birthday, balloons were provided. There was a very good choice of food and the price (at about Â£6 for adults) very reasonable.
Not sure how fussy the previous reviewers are but we went to the Oriental Garden last night and it was one of the best Chinese meals I've ever had ; loads of choice, starters and mains, including 2 soups. Dishes were constantly replenished and hot and there were plenty of meat options. The icing on the cake was an icecream machine, good choice of desserts and chocolate fountain with strawberries and marshmallows! Waiter service was good, dishes clean and the overall restaurant was a pleasant place to eat. Adult meal cost Â£12.95. I would definitely go again and would recommend.
Although it is a fair price and not expecting high Market food, there was hardly any choice on the buffet and the food was Luke warm some even cold! The sweet and sour sauce was vile! It should be against the law to serve! Some of the waiters were friendly but most of them had disgusting customer service. Not recommended at all! However the restaurant itself was nice to look at and a chilled out atmosphere. Nearly all the plates and bowls were dirty. Finally, the food was so wrong overall I have not stopped farting all afternoon, and my girlfriend was sick in her mouth numerous times!!!
Yes, I say not had. We had the misfortune to visit this place after attending a sporting event at the Millennium Stadium,( we stayed at Future Inn). It seemed dear for a family with 2 children, but at 9 o'clock on a Saturday night our options were limited....... Prices are based on childrens heights - above 1.4 metres are charged Adult prices, worth bearing in mind if you have a picky but tall youngster. Normally a Chinese Buffet would start off with soup, but since both soups had long since congealed into a gelatinous mass this option was not realistically available. There was a choice of about 5 starters - a small spectrum from over greasy spring rolls, to tooth breakingly hard Shredded Beef. About 5 Main courses, only 2 actually still had meat left in them, such meat as there was being almost impossible ti cut, let alone chew. Staff were overly attentive, taking our plates almost before we left. The best advice I can offer - go elsewhere, or go hungry; either is a better option. Spent Â£60, and left hungry.
This is not the best Chinese in Cardiff by far - the food is ok and just ok. What I don't like about this place is that at one time they used to charge 50p for a glass of tap water and now if your child is taller than 140cm you are expected to pay adult prices. My son is 10 - thus being a child - but as he is taller that 140cm (see the red line he was made to stand against on the restaurant wall!!!) - he in their eyes is not a child and would have to pay full buffet price. My advice is if you want a buffet style Chinese meal in Cardiff Bay Cosmo is the place to go.
Me and my boyfriend visit the Flaming Dragon lastnight, and I think it defo worth a visit. We have been to plenty of Chinese buffet over the years in the UK and me and my boyfriend both think flaming dragon serve the best quailty chinese food. I am chinese myself, and the food they serve here is actually what chinese people eat. most of the other buffet places which normally full of deep fried per packed food!!However must say the sushi here were bit of a let down. My boyfirend (he is welsh) loved this place, and found they use high quailty ingredients (i.e. prawns and steak).So if you like your real chinese food, this place is a MUST GO!but if you only like your curry sauce and chips, then i dont think this place is for you!! The staff are also very nice, which is something that you will NEVER find in Cardiff Cosmo!! Will visit again!
Avoid, If you like buffet style restaurants then Cosmo offers more choice and far superior quality. We went to Flaming Dragon on a Sunday afternoon and it was deserted, the food was old and cold with a very limited choice. Easily the worst buffet style restaurant we have been to.
We have been to Flaming Dragon many times and had enjoyed every visit. However, after yesterday we will not return. The restaurant wasn't really busy. When I was collecting my food from the buffet a female worker rudely pushed in front of me to check on the food. This happened several times. On a table near us were 4 young lads, probably around 16. Although I'm sure the staff must have problems with some customers, these lads were made to pay for their meal up front at the table. The staff were constantly watching them. The lads put any waste food onto one plate and put the other plates in a tidy pile. This plate was collected by a waiter who had a right go at them about the waste. 5 minutes later the manager came over and had words with them too. They then each wanted a coke, the money was taken up front. For the rest of their time there, there was always at least one staff member hovering around by their table watching them. At no point did the lads misbehave or answer back, in fact they were well behaved. I would hate to think that any of my children would be treated like that. These events have put us off visiting the restaurant again.
I dont do buffet restaurants but this is very good, they have there own chefs who will cook you fresh steak, prawns, salmon or other dishes as well, the staff are great and the place is always very clean, will be back.
A buffet style chinese but unfortunately the food had been out so long as to be dry and unedible. Would not go again
The food was horrible, cold. There was no curry sauce or chips left (very simple things) and we asked 3times in a 20minute period for these things before they were finally brought out. Also there was a sign saying that the noodles were vegatarian but on further inspection we found chicken. Will never go back!
Monday 21st Nov 2011. 4 of us were heading into the city for a teatime meal. We passed it + it looked lovely inside so when we checked the price was only Â£6.90 up to 17.30 it was worth a try. It was quiet and we were showed a window table + offered drinks. All food was fresh + hot + tasty. We all tried a bit of everything from the side dishes, ribs, noodles to the curries and beef dishes. Desserts were colourful but we all had bowls of ice cream. The waiters + waitresses were very helpful + friendly. Would go there again. Recommended.
In our experience Flaming Dragon was much like any other Chinese buffet restaurant with a few features that stood out. A lot of the dishes were in containers with lids which seemed good as it was nice and hot but not all dry. The woman at the sushi counter was quite helpful when we were trying to decide what to get and the place was modern and fairly nice inside. Unfortunately the food was a bit disappointing. Although the choice of dishes was good and the pots with lids did their job, the quality wasnâ??t great and everything was just a bit mediocre. The service was a bit naff as well, the place was very quiet but we still struggled to get the attention of a waiter and had to keep going and asking for drinks. On the whole it was ok but not the treat that we usually expect if we go out and for the money there certainly better places.
Great choice of food but a shame that on Sunday lunchtime, part of the buffet was not available. Food was tasty and hot which was good. The desserts did not look appetising as were very brightly coloured and synthetic looking! Always drink tea with an Asian meal and it is the first time I was given a teapot with a solitary tea bag in it! Should have been loose tea! Still fun place to go and would go back.
Amazing food and staff are always helpful and attentive.
Well, it was ok. Me and the wife had an average burger, with meagre fries (ironically, they needed a bit of salt, no salt and pepper to be seen on the table). The decor was tired, and in places even dangerousâ?¦ big staples sticking out of some of the furniture. The whole place looked like it would have been a very cool, funky venue five or so years ago. The staff were very pleasant, the beer (Brains) was excellent. I felt it was somewhat overpriced. The atmosphere was improved by the arrival of a group of kilted scotsmen, down to see the rugby, other than that it was a bit flat. If you get the right seat upstairs you get a pretty decent view of Cardiff Bay.
it was not particularly busy when we orderd meals there lunchtime yesterday. we were 2 groups of 3 and ordered together. 3 fish and chips, one breakfast, 2 garlc chicken with potatoes and mixed salad. nothing exciting or difficult. We were not informed of a delay, but 40 minutes later we still hadnt had our meals and we getting anxious as had theatre booked. We enquired, the girl disapearred for 5 minutes then said they would be a few minutes more. The other group had their meals and we were still waiting for ours when thy had eaten. The meals eventually came out 55 minutes after ordering, served on stone cold plates, and the meals were just lukewarm. By then we had no choice but to eat as we were on a tight schedule. My chicken was a slice of breast, which was dry, the 2 or crushed potatoes were cold, and the mixed salad a few 'lambs tongue 'leaves on the side. Mam's chips were cold, cousin's breakfast on a cold plate had congealed. it was one of the poorest meals I have ever had, both for service and value for money...never again.......
Chose this place because it was still serving food at 3pm. After ordering at the bar I began to regret our decision as after closer inspection the tables had not been properly cleaned up. We asked someone to wipe them then waited for our order. I chose "Blanchebait" because we were told it was freshly delivered from France. It was anything but fresh. The cocktails were OK but nothing special. A disappointing experience.
This is a restaurant in Cardiff Bay, not a good outside appearance and looks tired inside for its prime position. The fish and chips are reasonable not as good as Harrys in Scarbourgh or Bighton in both of these places the meal is served much hotter and the chips do not go soggy. Will probably go again in time.
Considering its a chip shop, I was astonished when after waiting 20 minutes food was not ready. Have not retired since!
Cook was wearing tatty old bobble hat with bits of hair sticking out of it. Till girl tried to give me foreign money change and was surprised I wanted it changed into sterling! Food overpriced and disappointing. It made excellent seagull food
Been twice and will never go again. The first time it wasn't up to much so I don't know why we went back. The second time it was just plain awful. We walked in off the street an hadn't booked. We were told it would be a 30 min wait for a table even though it was only half full. I wanted to leave but my boyfriend was hungry so we decided to stay. We were directed to the bar to wait. He went to the bar to get us a drink, the barman said as we hadn't been seated we couldn't have a drink. When we were seated we waited about 20 mins for someone to take our order. We ordered soup for starter with bread. It took forever! There were two girls sat next to us who were being very abnoxios, annoying and loud. The soup was fine, the bread didn't arrive - we asked about the bread and it arrived way after we had finished the soup. When the drinks arrived he had brought three drinks, we told the waiter we had only ordered two. He took them away and came back ten minutes later to tell us we had ordered three drinks. We just looked at each other, there was only two of us?! When the main meal arrived it was dissapointing, it was barely warm and the chips were just the scrag ends left over scraped up all together. We had to wait a long time for the bill. My boyfriend had to go looking for someone just to get the bill. We weren't asked how the food was, we weren't asked for drink re-fills. The two girls asked and managed to get chip refils which they decided to throw at other customers. Eventually they were asked to leave and I watched and saw that they didn't pay. It's over-priced, the foods rubbish and the service is non-exsistant. We were there over two hours in total and paid about Â£40. The take-away section have started a deal, fish chips and a drink for Â£3.99 which is great. I suggest shut the restaurant and just do the take-away.
We visited on Sunday 4th April as a quick and slightly 'cheaper' option. I had tried to book on-line earlier in the afternoon and after some of the most laborious contractual terms and conditions I have ever seen on an on-line booking service their system refused to let us book - we gathered it was really busy so just took a risk and turned up on spec anyway. The service was slow and laborious even though the restaurant was quiet (20% full) and there seemed to be more staff than customers. The food was average, fatty (more than you'd expect even for fish and chips) and very homogenised - not the super fish and chips you'd expect from the brand. The haddock and chips should have included bread and butter but this was missed from our order. By the time we'd found a waiter to mention this we'd virtually finished our meal anyway. To cap it all off I found a delightful (fried?) thick black hair in the middle of my chips - luckily (or not?) I'd just finished eating when I discovered this surprise. The bill came to over Â£52 which for three fish and chips, one kids meal and a single shared starter seemed quite expensive especially when you consider some of the drinks were actually missing from the bill when it arrived.
This has really gone down hill over the years. My teenage son and I had been to catch a movie out at the Bay. He rather fancied somthing to eat, so at around 4pm on a Saturday we walked down to Mermaid Quay and entered Harry Ramsden's. We'd last eaten here some years ago. Externally a large building at a quay-side location. Where better to have fish and chips? Internally a large split-level dining room hung with chandeliers and having nice views to the bay and beyond. We were seated promptly and given our menus. All the usual fayre - cod and chips or haddock and chips with mushy peas and bread and butter for Â£8, or the larger portion for just under a tenner. They allow "unlimited refils of chip" for greedier feeders. After 20 minutes the waiter remembered that we had been waiting. This was surprising as there were fewer than a dozen tables occupied at the time. He took our drinks order and food order. After 15 minutes wait - he came back with the drinks. Actually it was the WRONG drinks order. He went away and returned after a further 5 minutes with the drinks and a plate of bread and butter. After a further 20 minutes the fish and chips turned up. I had ordered the large cod and chips. My son had ordered the regular size of the same meal. Both were indistinguishable in size! We ate and left. What a disappointment. What poor staff training and inattentive service. They were hardly rushed off their feet and still it took 35 minutes after being seated to be even served a drink! Steer well clear of this place.

ACCIDENTAL reviews are good.

As a writer you traipse in for a lunch expecting nothing much except good company and then hey presto! the food joins the party too. 

You didn't eat the meringue, you mined it. You drilled though layers of egg white spun with sugar, to dripping toffee caverns and banana sub strata.
This happened in the Olive Press on Lloyd Street in Manchester last week. On an awkward site, it was an awkward idea when it first opened, a classic piece of Italian inspired fluff. It was all right. That was about it.

But last week things were different.

I couldn't fault any of the dishes we ate including deep fried calamari with lemon mayonnaise (£5.95), roasted hake with salsa verde, potato and egg (£12.95) and an Italian burger in a focaccia bun with mozzarella and pesto (£11.50).

I certainly couldn't fault the Ridiculous Meringue Of Overwhelming Desire (£5.95) - that's my name for it by the way.

On a middling half full lunch hour in Oliver Press the wholehearted food showed deft handing, apt seasoning and simple straightforward virtues. It was not so much a surprise as just good.

The hake dish was given distintion by those lengthways quartered boiled eggs, all garrumphed in oil and herbs, with spuds and toms. Slapped on the tines of a fork with the fish flesh too, this was a joy. Slippery, moist flavours and textures were the keynote. It felt healthy, felt like my skin was getting treated properly, like in one of those ads for skin products that mention 'essential oils'. 

The calamari fried with crisp light batter and dunked in the lemon mayonnaise were a great accompaniment to the hake - although perhaps not so good for my skin. The calamari appear on the menu as a starter but I wanted them as a side for the main course, and it worked a treat, boosting the combination of flavours and adding a nice crunch.

The burger (main picture, top of the page) was coo-ed over by the fellow diner. The springy, soft-centred, mince was firm on the outside and jingled and jangled with a decent pesto, a basil leaf and mozzarella topping. The ramekin of hot little sauce was welcome.

As the picture shows we swapped the fries for salad and this was a model of fresh, crunchy greens with onions and tomatoes. 

Then it was the Ridiculous Meringue Of Overwhelming Desire (£5.95). This was a monster of a meringue kicked into life with toffee, banana, and cream so thick you could walk on it with snowshoes, or even tennis racquets tied to your brogues or heels.

You didn't eat this meringue, you mined it. You drilled though layers of egg white spun with sugar, to dripping toffee caverns and banana sub strata.

Meringues are part of my past. My gran made meringues so good, young lads would leave off football games in the park and go sprinting down Sandy Lane for them. Along with knickerbocker glories and trifles, they stand before my eyes, like an intense dream of childhood happiness. 

Unlike the meringues the wine range at Olive Press is more or less mundane, reds and whites by numbers, but have prices to match from £12.95 up to the mid-twenties. If you are driven mad by meringue mania you could buy a bottle of Amarone 2002 at £40, which delivers full-on quality.  

Matthew Pritchard is the head chef at the Olive Press. For a middling restaurant aimed at a middling market he's achieved really strong work here.

He shows that chains such as Olive Press (and Piccolino off Albert Square) can lift themselves up high and produce food that can be quality yet reasonably priced.

What the Olive Press isn't, I suppose, is an Italian restaurant. It's an Italian-inspired British restaurant. And as Roberto Mancini and Mario Balotelli keep wanting to tell me, not all Italian inspired restaurants need be square pichetti in round buci. 

At the time of reviewing, Milan Fashion Week was just finishing. The sight of emaciated Slavic teenagers galloping down the catwalk as if there might be a lettuce salad stashed in Anna Wintour’s handbag, if only they could get to it before it snapped shut, had me reaching for a carb sandwich. And which country worships the carbohydrate above all others? Why Italy ironically enough.

The ingredients are generally good but sometimes it just doesn’t flow together and they become what people expect them to be rather than what they want to be. Rosso is basically the Manchester City of Italian restaurants.
Of course in Italy the great God pasta, is actually a kind of the mezzanine level (an intercourse?) between the antipasti and the secondi. Let’s not even get in to fish and salad courses. Not unless you’re doing the cheat day of the Butterfield diet .

So in search of an Italian blowout, I headed for Rosso. A friend of mine once defined a girl’s night out as a transvestite having sex with a Martini glass. Well I’m not sure that is the OED version (surely a Christian Louboutin shoe is marginally safer?) but I’ve found the perfect place in Manchester for a Girl’s Night Out. Even if you are a lumbering six foot two fella obsessed with football.

The hostess asked our waitress to ‘seat these two ladies’ as she led us through the elegant main restaurant and a monster was born. Man instantly becomes woman. It’s only a couple of letters anyway.

So for the antipasti we ordered a half dozen Colchester oysters (£9.75) and a glass of Prosecco (£3.95) each (so far, so Sex and The City). What an opener. The molluscs were quality through and through. As unctuous, sumptuous and tasting-of-the-sea as mermaid’s snot (and I mean that in the best possible way). No ostentatious stuff, just some chunks of lemon, some red onion in vinegar, and two keen slurpers.

For the carb overload I ordered the seafood risotto (£12.95); again, the ingredients (mussels, monkfish and an especially grumpy langoustine) were fresh and satisfying. Rosso certainly has an excellent fish supplier. My only quibble was that the rice was a tiny bit on the firm side. My newly female companion’s carbonara (£5.95 for a starter portion) was a disappointment, being creamy rather than eggy, with slivers of not overly impressive ham.

 It was, she confirmed, more of a superior ready meal, Waitrose rather than Morrison’s, but a ready meal nonetheless. I couldn’t help wondering if this is because Rosso expects its customers to expect the creamy bastardized version of the dish, which to my mind is still not bad eating at all, it just ain’t carbonara.

This provoked discussion of the most horrendous Italian-inspired processed meal, which came in at: Heinz Ravioli, followed by a hideous pizza-style creation from the sorrowful labs of Dr Oetker followed by a whole Vienetta (mint choc chip flavour of course). Add your own suggestions please.

Onto the secondi. This is perhaps the kind of cooking people least associate with Italy, meaty brown dishes that are substantial and hearty and perhaps most all, brown. Surely Italian food is meant to be as tricolore as the national flag, not as deep mahogany as Berlusconi’s tan?

I ordered Fegato Alla Veneziana (£16.95), or calves liver with onion and sage served on potato puree. Not the most beautiful of dishes, but the caramelised onions melted sweetly into the liver for a delicious version of a classic. Rosso might consider serving it on polenta to up the Italian factor (it does seem a bit perverse to order liver ‘n’ onions in an Italian restaurant, even if it is Venetian style.) Sadly, the Bistecca All Rosso (£18.95) was just the opposite. A decent piece of steak, cooked very well (if not quite as blue as ordered), but ruined by one terrible element, an actually repellent sauce. Avoid.

As for the wine list, there are not surprisingly a few flash footballer-type choices in the champagne section. The rest is a decent selection of not exclusively Italian wines. We had the Reisling (£36.95) and the Valpolicella (19.95). The red was especially good value. It would be wonderful if more of these wines came by the glass as it would have been great to try a Barolo with the steak. However, the economic imperatives against offering too many wines by the glass is sadly understandable, as no one (not me, not Rosso, and especially not Butterfield) wants good wine to go to waste.

For the dessert we split a pannacotta, a quivering vanilla breast of a pudding. This one was a bit on the insipid side, though it did come with its own morello cherries for nipple-placing fun.

In the final analysis, my lovely lady friend, looking forward to taking off the mascara and the binding clothing, had this to say: “The thing about Rosso is, it’s obviously spent a lot of money on the interiors, the people, the suppliers. The ingredients are generally good but sometimes it just doesn’t flow together and they become what people expect them to be rather than what they want to be. Rosso is basically the Manchester City of Italian restaurants.”

For a restaurant part-owned, or at least heavily promoted, by Rio Ferdinand and called Rosso for a very, very pointed reason, this description probably wasn’t exactly what they were looking for.

 Anyway with that, my companion left planet Venus and returned to his gruff self, hopping on the nearest man-mobile back to Mars, where Top Gear and Bruce Springsteen are played on repeat.

As for this XX chromosome carrier (and, as it happens, City fan), I enjoyed the hustle and bustle of Rosso, the friendliness of the staff and most importantly, my dinner. It’s a strange one. I wouldn’t like to order one of the secondi mains, which veer into properly expensive territory, and be disappointed, and yet the pizza and pasta selection isn’t really special enough for the kind of flash, glamorous experience Rosso is setting itself up to be. Order wisely (or luckily) and your girls (or boys) night out will be a lot less painful.


I wasn't sure what to expect from a restaurant called MexItalian. Taquitos with alfredo sauce? Birria lasagna?

My friend Laura had already visited the Water Street restaurant and praised the pizza, which spoke well for the menu's Italian aspects: she was born in Florence and returns often to visit.

We met at MexItalian, a location that has housed other Italian restaurants over the years: Bella Napoli, Il Trullo, Limoncello. Inside, the rich aroma of Italian espresso enhanced carved artwork from Oaxaca and décor that didn't spotlight the predictable green, white and red of the two countries' flags. Instead, ochre and creamy avocado walls supported bright photo posters; mirrors expanded a small side room and deep yellow tablecloths topped with glass added to the casually refined atmosphere.

A gracious man I assumed to be our server invited us to be seated; we chose a window table beneath a row of colorful wooden jaguar masks. After he described the evening's specials, including two gnocchi dishes, Laura asked if the gnocchi were fresh.

He smiled broadly. "I made them."

Our friendly host was none other than chef/co-owner Fernando Vasquez, who explained he was originally from Oaxaca, like the jaguar carvings nearby.

The menu featured a number of items typical of each culture, from Italian bruschetta and pasta to Mexican quesadillas and enchiladas. Several dishes combined both worlds, such as the pizzadillas and Parmigiana Mexicana;

I also counted 16 dishes marked as vegetarian and/or gluten-free. From several spicy-icon items we chose the MexItalian Pizza [$10] to start, followed by Fernando's Gnocchi Bolognese special [$12.50] and one of the restaurant's "fusion entrees," Tilapia Empanada [$12].
Fernando turned the table over to Anya [whose Belarusian accent added another international layer to the evening], and she brought our 10-inch pizza in a flash, the thin crust topped with molten mozzarella. Arranged around the circle like colorful spokes, narrow strips of Mexican and Italian sausage alternated with ribbons of red pepper and green nopalitos. I embraced the pizza's subtly fiery flavor, just hot enough to raise my eyebrows but not singe my palate.

Looking like fat parentheses of pillowy dough, Laura's gnocchi were tender, soft and homey. We both appreciated the fact that the rich, lightly meaty Bolognese sauce coated the little potato dumplings without drowning them.

"Empanada" generally suggests a little pie, but my nicely cooked tilapia filet was delicately breaded with panko crumbs and mustard, then pan-seared and served under pale green, lightly spicy tomatillo-cilantro sauce. A plain presentation of creamy Arborio rice and tender pinto beans accompanied the fish.

The bicultural dessert menu offered tiramisu or flan, both housemade; we chose the Mexican sweet [$4.50]. I always cross my fingers when I order flan, which can range from undercooked and syrupy to bouncy and bland. Our velvety custard was delicious, perfectly textured and just sweet enough. It was presented in a clever flower-like arrangement, the flan circled by strawberry slice petals and with a chocolate stripe stem and fresh mint leaf.

MexItalian's simple wine list consisted of one Italian pinot grigio, chardonnay, Chianti and primitivo [zinfandel], as well as a French cabernet, each at $5 a glass or $18 for a bottle; prosecco was slightly more. Three draft beers and several bottled beers were also available, as well as housemade horchata, coffee and espresso.

This charming little restaurant offers an appealing menu of Italian, Mexican and fusion cuisine, served in an unpretentious but attractive setting. And Laura was right about the pizza: even though MexItalian doesn't have a traditional pizza oven, our spicy mixed-culture pie was delicioso. Or delizioso.

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Manchester loves the things that it’s famous for – football, television, music and business. And the people who make Manchester’s reputation love to eat at San Carlo Manchester Italian Restaurant. It’s a real "see and be seen" restaurant which even lists some of the celebrities it attracts on its website. You may not recognize all of the names and faces but you’ll love the buzz they create.
Tucked down a quiet street by the side of the city’s top department store, Kendal Milne, there’s nothing quiet when you get inside this Manchester Italian Restaurant - part of a group that includes outposts in Birmingham, Bristol and Leicester.

There is space for up to 200 diners to enjoy Italian-style food in its slick, glossy dining room. The menu is extensive, with lots of classic Italian dishes, often presented with a modern twist. Do look at the daily specials, likely to include a good variety of fish and seafood.

This Manchester Italian restaurant is a great place to linger. Perch on a bar stool with an aperitif to watch the locals meeting-and-greeting. Or watch the chefs at work against the burnished copper backdrop of the theatre-style kitchen. In a city famed for its rain, there can be no better way to spend a wet afternoon.

A quiet (and remarkably clean; seriously, the place is just spotless) little restaurant near the university. The extensive menu defies easy classification - choose between Scottish, Italian and Mediterranean - and if that wasn't confusing enough they also open early for Sunday brunch fry-ups. We thought the three-courses-for-twenty-quid dinner menu (2 course deal also available) was very good value (with generous portion sizes) the highlights being a massively tasty ox-tongue starter and an amazing chocolate and orange cake dessert.

On Sunday lunchtime at least this is another busy and buzzing New Town place in the Hendersons/Urban Angel area. Unusually for an Italian (in our experience) the pasta surpassed the pizza, the pizza being disappointingly soggy while the pasta (or more specifically its blue-cheese based sauce) was absolutely delicious. Service was excellent, apparently nothing being too much trouble for the waiters. The ventilation seems insufficient though; while the occasional pillars of flame in the tiny cooking area are entertaining, they do seem to contribute to making the place rather smoky.

Busy italian which avoids feeling too crowded on account of being a rambling series of interconnected rooms occupying most of a block besides Leith Walk. This made it a good choice for the office party season, as the big groups have their own spaces. Pasta and pizzas are good, the monstrous seafood platter being especially impressive. However we were slightly annoyed by the lack of the advertised chillis on a Pizza Diablo, for which we were given two different explanations ("we've run out" and "we find most people don't like chillis") by two different people. While this isn't in the same league as another establishment's attempt to serve us an anchovy-free Salad Nicoise, it is irritating when places don't tell you about such changes and give you a chance to pick something else. There is now also a branch of Vittoria on George IV Bridge too, but we haven't tried it.

Grim looking Italian. Convenient for a quick pizza before or after visiting one of the cinemas in the area, but has little else to recommend it.

You wouldn't suspect it from the outside, but the front of this apparently small and cosy little Italian opens out into a cavernous main dining area, no doubt intended to cater to the hordes flocking to the Playhouse Theatre opposite. Unexceptional pasta, soggy pizza.

The decor was very modern - the quite backroom was less atmospheric than the main restaurant, but very enjoyable. The staff were pleasant but it was not as engaging as other tasting menus not enough passion about the food and wine. But a lovely night and great venue if you are looking for clean cool decor.

Life in Rome was fantastic. We had a tasting menu which included wine for 50Euros - very good value as the wines were of excellect quality and complemented the high standard of food. The tasting menu was 5 courses and included steak as well as pasta and dessert. Would definitely go back and recommend to anyone going to Rome.

Our dinner at the Ad Hoc Restaurant was the highlight of our visit to Rome. The reception on arrival, the ambiance, service, food and wine were all top class. I had the Roman tasting menu and my partner had the Truffle tasting menu, and both were superb, with excellent accompanying wines. All in all a delightful evening.

We visited Ad Hoc whilst in Rome on a 3 day trip. The food was delicious and the service impeccable. We both ordered the tasting menu and found this to be very good value. We booked on Toptable and although they ask which menu you would prefer whilst they check availibility this can be changed on the night at the restaurant. Highly recommend.

We had a wonderful evening, the food was fabulous, the wine was wonderful and the service was second to none. If you go to Rome, you should definitely have supper here one night.

At first sight you think this might be an ordinary pizza pasta restaurant. However the menu is much more varied and the owner cooks authentic Italian recipes. The steak that I had was delicious and tender covered with the freshest parmigiano that I have had in many years. If only this was nearer home I would go back in a flash.

The pasta was delicious and plenty to choose from on the menu.
The location is a little out of the way down Castle Street and empty with little atmosphere on the February Monday we visited.

We stayed in Canterbury for a couple of nights to celebrate my Father's 60+ birthday. As we all love italian food, we read on Tripadvisor about this restaurant. We were not disappointed. We were greeted with warm friendly staff, the menu is extensive and food is equally delicious. Excellent prices too. Thank you for singing Happy Birthday to Dad he has been telling everyone of the great night he had at Pinocchios Italian Restaurant. Look forward to visiting again when next in Canterbury.

I was disappointed with my vegetarian penne dish. The only vegetables visible were peas and mushrooms. It was only served in what seemed to be a basic tomato sauce. Lacked flavour. However, my friend really enjoyed the capriziosa pizza.

Despite living in Canterbury for 30 years I have never had an evening meal in this wonderful restaurant. Canterbury has so many places to eat it is easy to be drawn to those in the town centre or that look more 'restaurant like'. However we decided to go here after reading other reviews. The food was lovely and the staff extremely helpful and attentive. It was so nice not to be hurried but I only had to look around for a waiter and one would immediately appear. Fabulous choice, reasonably priced. The wine menu too was affordable but very good - we had a lovely Frascati. We had only intended to have a quick meal but enjoyed ourselves so much we stayed for all 3 courses. On a Friday evening it was busy when we arrived at about 8 but luckily a group were just leaving so in future I would ring ahead to save being disappointed.

We went to Pinocchio's for a meal to celebrate our daughter's 21st, and took a chance as we had never been there before. It certainly paid off, and we couldn't have made a better choice. The staff were wonderful and couldn't have been more accommodating, the food was delicious and plentiful and the atmosphere was warm and friendly. We had a lovely time and would recommend it without hesitation to anybody who enjoys good authentic italian food at very reasonable prices. We can't wait to go back.

I've been living in Canterbury for 13 years and as any visitor to the city will tell you there are many Italian restaurants here, easily making up more than half of the dining options. There's a lot of competition and over the years I've probably eaten at nearly all these restaurants, which is why I feel confident in saying that Pinocchios is clearly the best.

I've been there a few times now, and the food has always been delicious and very good value for money and the atmosphere lively and welcoming. The staff are very attentive (especially with the ladies with typical Italian flirtation!), courteous and funny. They are not just there to serve but to become part of your dining experience.

I will definitely be back soon!

JUST for a change we decided to go for a taste of little Italy just down the road in Penistone.

We resisted the temptation to call in at our favourite Indian restaurant, Taste of India, turned right at the bridge and headed a few hundred yards up the Thurlstone Road, turning left, then left again into the Ti Amo car park.

Thursday night and trade was brisk.

It was a raw, windy evening, but the stone cottage that houses Ti Amo was warm and welcoming.


We instantly agreed that we liked the feel of the place.

We had booked a table for two and were welcomed by joint owner Tina in the bar area downstairs and ordered drinks – a glass of white wine and a beer for me.

We sat at a table by the window and huddled round a radiator browsing through the extensive menu.

Decisions, decisions ...

For starters, I liked the sound of the Funghi Giganti, flat mushrooms, oven baked with dolcelatte cheese, parma ham, topped with parmesan shavings, Carol went for the Funghi Aglio – mushrooms cooked in a white wine sauce, garlic, butter and fresh parsley.

For mains we agreed to agree that the Coda di Rospo – grilled monkfish cooked with north region prawns, pernod, cream and saffron was the order of the day.

Pleased with our selections we were ushered upstairs into the main restaurant area and took up our table for two.

Tina came to take our orders.

As Carol was about to recite our pre-determined choices, Tina then told us about that evening’s specials dishes and suddenly it was decision time all over again.

Who could resist the temptation of homemade salmon and halibut fishcakes with a delicate red onion and green salad and chilli dip?

Not I.

Carol found the green-lipped New Zealand mussels impossible to refuse and so our carefully considered mushroom selections were duly amended.

We swapped the starters to compare notes. The fishcakes were every bit as delicious as they promised to be and the mussels – cooked in a garlic and wine sauce – were superb.

We will have to go back and try the monkfish main course at a later date because Tina had tempted us away with a house speciality lobster and crab in giant ravioli parcels cooked in a delicate cream/wine sauce with crabmeat, tiger prawns and ginger and artistically served with Langoustine and lobster claws.

For sweet it was tiramisu – a very large, chilled adaptation of the genre.


All the portions were deceptively generous and attractively presented. We were suitably impressed.

The restaurant areas upstairs and down are imaginatively presented with beams and wooden floors and attractive gable end murals of Rome – the Colosseum – and Venice.

Proprietors Paolo and Tina took over the running of Ti Amo only nine months ago and have created a friendly, relaxed atmosphere to compliment their food. The staff are polite and attentive and the menu extensive and tasteful.

 
The couple hail from Sheffield where they ran a city centre Italian restaurant for a number of years and appear to be enjoying their latest venture away from the bright lights.

The restaurant, which is available for private functions, events and special occasions, also offers an extensive Italian-based selection of dishes and takeaway meals that can be ordered by arrangement.

There is a wide range of antipasti including garlic bread, bruschetta, varied mushroom, fish and meat dishes, a selection of homemade pizza with extra toppings to order, main course fish and prawn dishes, tortelloni in a creamy tomato sauce with mascarpone cheese and fresh spinach, ravioli with mushrooms, cream and asparagus, gnocchi cooked with smoked bacon, in a garlic, chilli and tomato sauce, tagliatelle variations cooked with smoked salmon, prawns in a white wine and cream sauce, or with onion, smoked bacon, cream, eggs and parmesan cheese, tasty sounding linguine, lasagne, crespella pancake dishes, risottos, a wide range of chicken choices served with seasonal vegetables, duck pork and lamb variations and a range of steaks and side order dishes.

Ti Amo, incidentally, in general terms, means I love you in Italian. The Penistone Ti Amo proved to be an appropriately named destination for what proved to be a most enjoyable evening out.

A birthday is always a good excuse for a meal and having spotted Bellezza in Bridlington a few weeks earlier I had earmarked this Italian restaurant for my special meal out to mark my forty-something celebration.

The menu is a great advert for rustic Italian food, with descriptive words such as "hearty", "chunky" and "unique" dotted throughout the menu. However, the statement "for the brave" at the end of some of the dishes made me think that the food portions would be sizeable ... and I was not disappointed.

Our table for four was situated at the centre of the restaurant area and gave us an ideal site for people-watching both inside and out.

After being warmly welcomed and promptly taken to our table, we were given a comprehensive menu and pointed towards the specials board.

A bottle of house white (Verdicchio Classico at £9.99) was promptly ordered and proved to be a such a good choice for the adults, another was ordered later on in the evening.

Starters, shared between our group, consisted of Melanzane (aubergine, ham, tomatoes, garlic and parmesan cheese), prawn cocktail (big, succulent, fresh prawns and crispy salad) and garlic bread (huge). These three dishes were all declared to be packed full of flavour and enough to keep us going for the whole evening.

My wife opted for ravioli filled with lobster, served in a rich white wine sauce. At £9.95, this was good value, especially as the portion was, again, on the hearty side. Having begged a couple of the ravioli parcels from my good lady, I thought I should have picked this classic dish, but when I was presented with my choice of Nicoletta's famous lamb special a few moments later, I knew after the first succulent mouthful I had opted for the right dish for me. The melt-in-the-mouth lamb, which had been slow-cooked all day in rosemary oil and garlic, was perfectly complemented by the rich and slightly peppery cream sauce.

The other two in our party shared a huge cheese and ham pizza (well, they are children), and cleared their plates within minutes.

After a requested break, we started to look at the sweet options, but all we could manage between us was a zingy home- made lemon mousse and a couple of liqueur coffees. The kiddies were quite content to pick at a surprise sweet tree that was brought to our table by the owner with her compliments – a lovely touch to end the evening.

We all declared we had thoroughly enjoyed the meal. The ambiance of the restaurant, service and food quality were top notch.

To top the evening off, the bill came to just over £60 for the four of us, and that was including two bottles of wine, lots of soft drinks and coffees. It was excellent value.

Bellezza is a relatively new venture, and a lovely place to enjoy good, wholesome food in welcome surroundings. Well worth a trip to Bridlington for.

Camden Town is a pretty cool area, what with the famous market and the music venues plus its position as a residential area of choice for creatives and the media set. Yet, until recently, it has not given birth to any destination restaurants. Gilgamesh and York & Albany have raised the bar in the last few years, but surprisingly Camden still trails behind, say, Clerkenwell and Shoreditch as a place to go to eat.

In consequence, the arrival of a classy looking newcomer is welcome news. Caponata has a promising profile – Italian with strong Sicilian leanings - it consists of a ground floor Osteria and bar with a crisp, smart first floor ‘ristorante’. But what is a real plus is that, with considerable architectural panache, the owners – two sisters and their husbands – have combined their love of both food and music by creating a purpose built music and arts space. Named The Forge, reflecting the fact that a blacksmiths workshop once stood on the spot. Rest assured, this is not a twee ‘themed’ space, it is just a name; the whole complex – restaurants and art space - is a brand new building, replacing a long established Camden eaterie – Café Delancy – which was three interlinked terraced houses.

We chose to eat in the intimate upstairs restaurant where the menu looked imaginative, and the ambiance is ‘casual chic’. The pale walls are strangely reminiscent of 1960s stripped pine, whilst the room is modernised by lots of crisp linen, good tableware, elegant dark seating and subtle subdued lighting. One side also overlooks the glazed courtyard area which will come into its own in summer.

There are half a dozen antipasti and pasta choices, and seven ‘secondi’ dishes – all unpretentiously but temptingly described. Artichoke tart with taleggio fondue (£8.50) and Tuna with a cumin and pistachio crust on a bed of rocket and crispy fennel with lime dressing (£9.50) were our antipasti choices. The first had a delicate flavour which was somewhat overcome by the pastry – good as that pastry was - and the more-ish fondue element was sadly in short supply, as was seasoning.As a result, ‘bland’ was the word which best describes the result.

The wonderfully tender Tuna was nicely complemented by the fennel with lime dressing and judged a success, but more could have been made of the wafer thin cumin and pistachio ‘crust’ without overpowering the fish; here its timid application made little impact. We chose two Sicilian wines by the glass. A Mandrarossa 2008 Merlot with the tart ( £4.50 by the glass, £16 per bottle) was pleasantly rustic , and a robust white 2008 Fiano with the Tuna (£4.50 per glass, £18 for a bottle).

The pasta course was another game of two halves! Our choices were Ravioli filled with broccoli, dry currants and goats cheese on a pine nut cream. (£9), and Fettuccine with hare and crispy fennel ragout (£10). The ravioli was a beautifully flavourful assemblage, full of subtle contrasts which would also make an excellent main course ( £4 extra). The fettuccine was a disappointment. It suffered from a lack generosity - needing more hare than the sparse little pellets served, and more fennel than the three or four small pieces atop the pasta. In short, the whole dish needed intensity. As the Americans might say –‘easy on the pasta, heavy on the hare’ please!

Time for the Secondi. I chose the grilled fillet of venison with braised turnip, Marsala poached pear and balsamic vinegar zabaglione. (£16). My colleague went very Sicilian with saddle of rabbit filled with black truffle, leg confit and sautéed chard (£16). We shared a side dish (all side dishes are £3) of green vegetables with garlic.

The so called ‘Big Plates’ on the menu are divided into lamb dishes and chicken dishes. From the 11 lamb dishes on offer we chose Adana Kofte Kebab (£7.25), and were not disappointed, although the other items were equally seductive; all costing less than £10

Both were very well conceived combinations. The rabbit was properly cooked, moist and made totally delicious by the truffle stuffing and the garlic tinged succulent chard. To go with this, our ever attentive but unobtrusive waiter suggested a glass of the fragrant, sophisticated 2008 La Sagreta Bianco - a blend of Grecanico, Chardonnay and Viognier.

The venison - medium to well done as requested - was very tender and surprisingly gently flavoured, and was superbly partnered by the clever balsamic zabaglione, the ‘just right’ sweet poached pear and the soft subtle turnips – a much under exploited root veg. It was my bad luck that this superbly authentic, carefully balanced dish was spoilt by being served tepid. I could have sent it back of course, but I am averse to warming up complex dishes; something always gets lost. A pity, but the sophisticated essence of this fine dish shone through.

The green vegetables – courgettes and beans - with garlic were perfectly cooked, but the garlic was too subtle for us – that is, it was almost non existent! I only half blame the chef. Even in these days of international travel, many UK restaurants find that they need to tone down the garlic and seasoning for British palates. Shame on us. As one of the charming and concerned managers - Gianluca Dimartino – confided, “ recently we have had complaints that we used too much garlic in the dish, so we reduced it!”.

The wine? I stayed with the rustic Sicilian Merlot; fine with the venison.

The dessert menu also limits itself to six options. How Sicilian these are I am unsure, but the home made gelati and sorbetti (£5) and the artisan cheeses with chutney and biscuits (£9) are a sure authentic bet! We chose Caramelised pear on almond shortbread, lavender sauce and camomile ice cream (£6) and Rice cream semifreddo with passion fruit ice cream (£6). The fate of both turned on the ice cream. In the first, the camomile subtlety was overpowered by the other elements, and in the second, the gorgeous passion fruit ice cream dominated the bland slice of rice cream, making the latter redundant!

My feeling is that Caponata is still settling in. Some dishes need balancing, and some need more courage. The basis is there for a really good experience, and the menu is one of those where you want to try everything! My colleague and I both had some previous experience of head chef Danilo Barbagallos skills. First, at the restaurants opening party ( canapés only) and, by chance, the place was chosen by my colleagues company for their Christmas lunch, after which the food drew many favourable comments. So I shall return when their music programme gets started. I want to try that seared seabass, fennel gratin, anise sauce and parsnip crisps!

We went a la carte, but Caponata – named after a traditional Sicilian aubergine based dish – offers great value set menus, one course £9, two courses £15 and £21 for three. Brilliant – especially when you see the range of inventive choices available.

Ambling down Northumberland Avenue on our way to the Jubilee footbridge to Waterloo, I spotted a new bar restaurant, which from its name, Obika, I assumed to be Japanese. My error was further reinforced by the sight of a very modern looking bar complete with barristas wearing bandannas. However, when I looked at the menu outside, I saw that it was an Italian restaurant whose decor and modus operandi was Japanese influenced. But I must point out, we found no trace of fusion in the cuisine which is mainly from southern Italy.

The name of Obika is apparently the Neapolitan dialect for "here it is!" And it specialises in mozzarella handmade in Italy, certified by the regional authorities and sent over by courier three times weekly. We shared a mozzarella tasting plate with three different mozzarelle, one of which was afumicata, or smoked. My favourite was Burrata, very fresh and creamy, coming all the way from Puglia in the deep south of the country. Another house speciality is the selection of hams, salami and other cold cuts which included the best mortadella I think I have ever tasted. We also shared the cold meat tasting platter, which included ham, prosciutto, salami and the aforementioned mortadella. These came with excellent bread with olive oil and balsamic to dip into.

We then tried a little pasta, a simple but delicious ravioli in sage butter, and also the baked aubergine cooked in tomato sauce and parmesan, which was really yummy. These authentic flavours of Italy were washed down suitably with glasses of Barbera d’Asti from Ca’ dei Matt, and a very nice Chianti from Conte Placido.

We finished our meal with a shared tasting platter of desserts, which included a slice of Torta Caprese, that wonderfully dark Neapolitan chocolate and almond cake. Even the tiramisu made its mark on two relatively jaded palates! A glass each of Limoncello was like an encore and it tasted as though a dozen lemons had been squashed into the liqueur glass.

Obika is open daily from 7 a.m. for breakfast, until last orders at 10:45 p.m. Don't miss their traditional aperitivo evenings when you can enjoy fine wines with complimentary nibbles, every Friday between 5:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. sounds like a perfect way to end the working week.

Obika is at 7 Northumberland Avenue, just off Trafalgar Square.

Modern, smart and sexy. That’s the vibe at Alloro, a highly sophisticated Italian restaurant in the heart of Mayfair. With its patrons (who mostly appeared to be testosterone filled Italian businessman) looking like they’d stepped straight from an Armani advertising campaign. The interior is simple and contemporary, with clean lines and a use of wood throughout, whilst half etched front windows add disgression and privacy. Tables are well-spaced with starched linen tablecloths, fine-stemmed wine glasses and comfortable chairs. There is also a busy and bustling bar at the front which was packed to the gills on the night of my visit.

In the kitchen is Turin born Executive Chef Daniel Camera, who perhaps does not have the notoriety of some of the more celebrated Italian chefs residing here. However, judging by his busy restaurant and ex-pat clientele, I expect it is only a matter of time before he is revered.

As it was such a hot and humid evening a classic Bellini (fresh peach juice and champagne) was the perfect aperitif. Our dining experience then commenced with a little pre-starter, a refreshing summer gaspacho served with fruit that at once cooled and refreshed our palate. This came with accompanying cheese and herb breadsticks, artistically wrapped in a linen napkin.

The menu is divided into four sections. I began with a salad of crayfish with asparagus and avocado. It arrived picture perfect, with plenty of fanned crunchy asparagus spears, concassed tomato flecks, creamy avocado and juicy crayfish. The accompanying dressing being vigorous on the palate. This I soaked up with plenty of speciality breads that were regularly replenished. My guest’s pan-fried goats cheese looked mouth-watering. Presented on a large glass platter it was almost seared on the outside with a soft, luscious interior. Sitting on a bed of fresh spinach leaves, he said the softness of the cheese was interspersed with a textured crunchy middle whilst tiny caramelised onion shards added bite and texture.

Throughout the evening the sommelier helped guide us through the extensive wine list which is renowned for having some of the finest selections outside of Italy. We began with a slightly fizzy and flinty, Cayega 2007 Roero Arneis Tenota Carretta Piemonte £35.00. A easy drinking white wine with earthy overtones and a rich and lush interior. 

Skipping the pasta dishes for fear of overload, we moved straight onto the main course. I had a plate of monkfish, served pan-fried with chorizo and sautéed potatoes. Served with a saffron mayonnaise that decorated the plate like a piece of modern art. It was a hearty dish, the monkfish holding its own against the strong flavours all vying for attention on my palate.

My guest ordered one of the specials of the day. A duck breast cooked exactly as he’d asked came perfectly pink and thinly sliced with accompanying grilled figs adding texture. A rice salad with copious nuggets, including chives, tomatoes, rocket leaves and orange zest added a summery freshness. To drink, we had a bottle of Guidalberto 2006 Cabernet Sauvignon San Guido Toscana, £65.00, which proved a robust full-bodied accompaniment.

Struggling to find room for pudding we shared a hot chocolate fondant with its delectable lush gooey interior, the rich chocolate and cold vanilla ice cream pairing superbly together. Served on a rectangular frosted glass plate it came pleasingly served with berries.

I thoroughly enjoyed my evening at Alloro. It’s the sort of restaurant one usually can’t find outside Italy. Serving authentic cooking in fine surroundings resulting in a memorable experience.

The Brunello Restaurant is somewhere not just to eat, but also to experience, due to the sheer opulence of its interior.

Dining here is a bit like being on a stage set of a very exotic theatre production.

The very large open plan room is spacious and welcoming with an atmosphere of indulgence. The dining tables are large with deep comfy armchairs to settle into, the room is predominately black and gold with stunning black Murano glass chandeliers throughout. Jazz is played at a very low volume and overall a sense of occasion and formality have been installed. Other interesting design features include a wall of tumbling water and a beautiful large screen filled with retro style black and white photographs. But would it all be a triumph of style over substance?

Champagne seemed to fit the occasion so we began with a glass of Moet & Chandon Brut Imperial non vintage - delicately crafted with very fine bubbles - the sign of a good quality champagne, our appetites nicely whetted for a spot of lunch and a perfect way to spend a rainy May afternoon in London.

The food is Italian and in the kitchen is Head Chef Stafano Stecca, who has worked in some of Italy’s finest restaurants, and of late has crafted his techniques in some of London’s best dining rooms including Al Duca, Rosmarino and Zafferano. There are two menus - a la carte and a set menu. The set menu being particularly good value at £20.00 for two courses or £24.00 for three courses including a glass of wine - perfect for the ‘ladies who lunch’ who were predominately the other diners in the room. We decided on the a la carte menu and I began with Linguini with prawns and courgette flowers, which was fresh tasting, buttery with a good flavour. My guest chose the cream of pea soup with dried bacon and fresh goat’s cheese, saying it was rich and velvety and pleasing.

To follow I chose the mixed fish and shellfish tempura (fritto misto) with tartare sauce and chilli honey, it had a fragrance as if it had come straight from the sea, attractively served on a rectangular plate with a good squeeze of lemon, it was a plate of delicate flavours nicely offset by the punchy dipping sauce. To drink I had a glass of Italian Chardonnay which was fruity without being too heavily oaked. My guest had a plate of roast fillet of beef with foie gras, celeriac mash and Brunello red wine sauce. He said the meat was beautifully tender, served slightly pink as requested with a slice of delicious foie gras and a very pleasing jus. To drink he tried an eponymous red Brunello which he said was rich and luxurious on the palate - a fine accompaniment to the meat. We finished by sharing a very light strawberry and raspberry mousse with fresh fruit and strawberry coulis.

This is the ultimate romantic lunch or dinner a deux destination, where the substance does match the style! Brunello provides luxurious and calm atmosphere that in a city as busy as London, can sometimes be hard to find.

A stone’s throw from the Old Bailey lies Terranostra Cucina Italiana, an authentic taste of Sardinia in a setting as far removed from that island as one can imagine. The interior is unpretentious with simple décor, deep polished wood tables and chairs and modern art on the walls. When we visited, it was packed with the suited-and-booted brigade taking a very long lunch. There was also an extremely large party made up totally of Italians, which had to be an encouraging sign. The dining room is cozy; my only grumble being the tables were a little on the small side. The ambience is warm and lively, so not somewhere to come for an intimate chat a deux - more a place to enjoy with a few mates while joining in the general merriment. However in the evening I suspect the atmosphere would be more laid back and quiet.

To begin, a large basket of tempting breads was offered, including the Sardinian speciality - Carta di musica - a form of exceptionally large and crunchy and crispbread. The menu has plenty to entice. We shared a stunning fish platter for two to start (talleri di pesce) which included calamari, raw tuna with caramelised onions and balsamic vinegar, punchy marinated anchovies, cured swordfish and smoky infused salmon. This was a pleasure to eat; served artistically on an oaked marbled platter Every bite was sensational, with each pungent flavour holding its own on the palate.

To follow, again there was plenty to tempt. I tried the linguini, served with plenty of fresh crab and a touch of chilli which added a bit of a welcome kick. The escalope of veal was cooked perfectly, being full of flavour with a pepper and lemony bite. It arrived seared and glistening with an appetising aroma and was served with perfect sautéed potatoes and spinach. There are plenty of well priced Sardinian and Italian wines to choose from. We tried a rich and oaky Sardinian Grotta Rosa 2005, very reasonably priced at £20 a bottle.

For pudding there was a short but tempting choice of Italian favourites. We shared a warm chocolate and almond cake which arrived in small diamond slices on a glass plate accompanied by fresh raspberries and vanilla ice cream. Other desserts included tiramisu and panna cotta.

Terranostra Cucina Italiana is very popular and it’s easy to see why. It provides unpretentious but seriously good cooking using quality ingredients, served up with genuine hospitality. And its reasonable prices makes it stand out from the crowd in an area with little else to entice.

Family of six adults; ate from the early bird menu which had plenty of choice as did the a la carte. Wine menu very good, and costs compare to other restaurants, so not necessarily that cheap, but the early bird menu good value for money. Each person chose something different as their meal and we all thoroughly enjoyed it. Would definitely go again.

As a first time visit to Julios we have nothing but good to report, firstly as our booking was for 8.00pm and due to unforseen circumstances one couple arrived 30minutes late whilst the other couple arrived one hour late, this did not create a problem for the staff and we were soon given a table even though they were very busy, food excellent, service excellent great atmosphere, nothing too much trouble, we were out of town visitors and would definately return if in the area, Thankyou all at Julios, The Marris Family

We are always left with a good feeling after eating at Julio's.
The menu is excellent with varied specials, the staff are friendly and attentive and the food is priced at a decent rate.
The early bird menu is very good value for money.

Visited Julios in Halifax pre a theatre booking. Julios provide an early bird menu as well as their normal menu. The food was well presented and tasty and the staff were well mannered and attentive. I have never been before but after reading other reviews on Trip Advisor decided to go. Will definitely go again.

Enjoyed another fabulous meal last night at Julios. Took my friend and her 8 year old daughter who had never been before and they loved it. The staff can't do enough for you and even laughed and joked with my friends daughter which made it nice for her. Both had a starter as always garlic mushrooms as they can't be beaten here! Followed by us both having pasta dishes with garlic bread. Absolutely fantastic fresh and the new chips are very much welcomed compared to the fries haha. Even had room to share a pudding and couldn't move after that. Delicious and fantastic as always Julios thank you for a lovely evening. 4+ years of coming to this resteraunt treat as a friend by Julio himself as well as staff and will never tire of this fantastic place. If you have never tried this place you don't know what your missing.

We, (my husband and 2 x teenage sons), visited Brighton on Saturday 7th May 2011.

Arriving at Donatello's at around 6.30pm for dinner, the restaurant was heaving with families, friends, children and Hen parties - nobody had to wait as seating was found promptly and without fuss. Even additional tables were provided outside, when needed.

The atmosphere was buzzing and lively - as you would expect from such a cosmopoliton place!!

We had a very good meal from the set menu - plenty of choice. It was cooked perfectly, piping hot and very tasty, plus 2 rounds of drinks. All for just over £50.

No complaints at all!!!!

We all highly recommend this restaurant, the staff were pleasant and there when you wanted them.

Very impressed and I even took the time to compliment the Manager on a well run restaurant.

Well done guys!!! See you again soon.

We booked a large table in advance for the weekend The table time then got changed by the restaurant as they couldn't cope with our party size.

The seafood was awful, the meat was undercooked and sent back to the kitchen. The desserts, apart from the ice cream, were disappointing. The coffees were nice though!!

A table across from us refused to pay their service charge- reason unknown.

It's cheap and cheerful! 

My food (starter and main) was only so-so but I suppose it wasn't too bad for the price.

In the menu they boast that tiramisu is their speciality so I had that for dessert. Sugar is about the only taste there is in their tiramisu (no, it's not good in case you wonder).

The "espresso" that I ordered was completely unacceptable. It was no espresso to begin with as it had no crema - I suppose they don't bother with training their staff to make espresso. The taste was pretty awful as well, I left it in the cup. That's pretty low standard for a place that's supposed to be 'Italian.'

The waiters were nice though but not nice enough to counter-balance the disappointing food. 

Opening an Italian restaurant in Milton Keynes opposite Pizza Express and only a short walk from Zizzi and Strada in The Hub could be seen as a brave move. L’Artista however, is already an established brand. We found out when dining here for the first time that L’Artista offers something that little bit different.

This certainly wouldn’t be classed as a traditional restaurant – granite tables and vibrant colours create a unique setting in which to enjoy your food. We often describe menus as ‘extensive’ but it is hard to recall anywhere offering so much choice as L’Artista.

At first glance the prices seem a little crazy – crazily inexpensive but the side dishes are an extra, meaning your eventual price for a main course meal will come in at a reasonable average of £10.

We ordered our wine first – L’Artista’s house wine – the Vino Della Casa which is an Italian white. Easy drinking, this proved great value at just £12.50 per bottle.

I started my meal with the Festa del Bosco – mixed wild mushrooms topped with cheese (£5.50). This maybe a relatively simple dish, but it was full of flavour and I loved the tomato based sauce and the mix of strong flavoured cheeses. This actually proved quite filling and as well as the inexpensive prices, it was immediately obvious that the courses are also generous in size.

My partner opted for the Antipasto Primavera – goat’s cheese, sun-dried tomato and rocket (£6.10). The goat’s cheese possessed a lovely mellow and the soft cheese worked well with the crunchy bruchetta.

For mains the first choice listed on the menu was Pollo Sorpresa - Chicken Kiev at £8.10 and I decided to give this a try. My partner and I ordered a portion of fries (£2) and a rocket salad (£3.90) to share with our main courses. My chicken was delicious and tender and the taste of the garlic was strong, yet not overpowering. The fries were well cooked and moreish. The rocket salad however, was simply a plate of fresh rocket and I expected a little more for my money.

My partner’s choice of Saltimbocca alla Romana – veal with parma ham, sage and white wine sauce (£9.10) was very well received. Excellently prepared, this was a quality dish made all the more enjoyable by an outstanding tasting sauce.

Up to this point we were really enjoying ourselves, the atmosphere and the food in what felt like a holiday environment. We didn’t however, finish on a high. Like the main menu, the choices for dessert are extensive and it’s disappointing that these are not made or prepared in-house. Our choice of Toffee Pecan Cheesecake to share was a massive let down.

L’Artista offers something unique – the upside down artist palette on the ceiling, the sometimes unusual choice of music, the décor and massive choice of food are the overriding features of almost cute establishment. Ultimately, L’Artista in MK has the feel of a perfect family establishment and if you pay them a visit, one thing is pretty much assured – and that’s an excellent and friendly service.

This restaurant review was undertaken on Saturday, September 18, 2010.
La Collina has long been a favourite on MK Reviews and a group of us paid the family run restaurant a visit on a Saturday evening. When you arrive, you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is a restaurant as it is hidden towards the back, situated in a large conservatory.

We sat on the comfortable sofas near the bar and chatted away while we made our selections from the extensive menu. After placing our orders the waiting staff returned shortly afterwards, took our glasses and carried them through to the restaurant for us.

I started with a relatively simple yet tasty dish - Mozzarella Impanata which is Mozzarella in breadcrumbs with a homemade sweet chilli dip. This was very tasty and not too heavy - a pleasant way to start.

All the other guests had opted for the Freshly Baked Ciabatta Bread & Marinated Olives, with an extra virgin olive oil & balsamic vinegar dip. The olives were incredibly popular!

My partner predictably ordered her favourite pasta dish for her main course – the Fresh Egg Tagliatelle con Rucola - with olives, sundried tomatoes, spring onions, & capers finished with olive oil, rocket, parmesan shavings & toasted pine nuts. This choice of pasta has everything! This is a colourful dish that has an abundance of flavours that combine brilliantly. Not only is this a healthy meal, it is incredibly light and amazingly fresh.

My choice was the Agnello Arrosto. Roast rack of lamb, served pink with Italian beans & pancetta stew on a rosemary potato rosti. For those who enjoy their meat dishes, this is a real treat. The lamb is perfectly cooked and sits proudly on a large, tasty and well seasoned rosti. The Italian beans and pancetta stew prove the perfect accompaniment. I loved the way the lamb was prepared and couldn’t get enough of the rosti. Delicious!

One of the guests opted for a fish dish – the Filletto di Salmone. Pan seared fillet of salmon served with crispy marinated vegetables, crushed new potatoes & a fresh herb dressing. This main course of fish will make you go “wow” when it is served to your table. A very pretty and well presented main course, the salmon is delicious with a dash of the herb dressing. The crushed new potatoes are to die for. You will immediately taste the freshness in every mouthful and whilst the powerful flavours of the salmon are allowed to shine through, the marinated vegetables and potatoes prove the perfect side-kick and they work together as one.

The popular Pizza Della Casa was our other guest’s choice. Tomato pizza topped with parma ham, rocket & parmesan shavings. This is an amazing looking pizza from La Collina that really gets the taste buds flowing. La Collina serve some of the best pizzas you can have, and the Della Casa is no exception. They have recently received a Gold Star Award for the quality and use of fresh and authentic Italian ingredients in their pizzas. They are reasonably priced too.

The restaurant has a cosy feel to it – the red vertical blinds give it a feeling of warmth. There is plenty of room between diners and we found the staff to be efficient but not intrusive.

When a group of you are dining there can be nothing worse than one of the guests be slightly disappointed with their dish – especially if you are so taken by your own choice. Here at La Collina though, we all sat there simply delighted with our choices and the quality of our food. This somewhat inevitably, means you enjoy the occasion all the more. We ordered some more wine and whilst some of us struggled to find room for dessert, I could not resist the choice of Amaretto & Cantucci Biscotti Cheese Cake. This is one of the most popular desserts from La Collina. It is incredibly light with a delightfully crispy biscuit base. It was so good in fact, that I was not in the mood to share!

There are very few independent Italian restaurants in the area so if you’re in the mood for pasta or pizza, or indeed an authentic Italian dish – then La Collina is right up there on the ‘must try’ list. We loved it!

It worries me sometimes when I mention Sapori to friends and they seem unsure where this wonderfully authentic Italian restaurant is situated. So before I share an amazing dining experience with you, it’s worth pointing out that Sapori is on your left just as you approach Woburn on the Leighton Road.

We have visited this restaurant a few times before, including on a Valentines night, and whilst this is certainly a great venue for intimate dining, it is also ideal for any occasion, whether it be for a birthday celebration or a business meeting where you might be keen to impress your clients.

We had booked our table a week earlier and every day my partner and I would say to each other - “Sapori on Saturday!” in eager anticipation of returning to this cute little venue. As we took our seats, it was reassuring to the see the waiting team led by the same young lady who had first served us almost two years ago when we visited Sapori for the first time. With ambient lighting, soft music in the background, and an incredibly enticing menu before us, we readied ourselves for what would hopefully prove the perfect dining experience.

We started with a glass of Prosecco before ordering a bottle of Vernaccia di San Gimignano D.O.C. (£25). Varieties of Vernaccia are rapidly becoming a favourite wine of ours. Renowned for being fresh and crisp, this particular wine was no exception. Easy drinking, it accompanied our meal perfectly. At Sapori you will almost certainly not struggle to find an abundance of quality wines on the menu. My partner started with the Gamberoni aglio timo e Pinot Grigio £8.50. Shelled king prawns sauteed with fresh thyme, and simmered in a Pinot Grigio sauce with a touch of garlic. This is a mouth-watering dish. Simply presented with five large juicy King Prawns circling a plate, this dish is made all the more exceptional because of the amazing sauce. The prawns were exquisite – incredibly succulent and perfectly seasoned.

I started with a ‘Special’ of Calamari, served with a garlic and butter sauce and a salad garnish. This was a classic dish that arrived with slices of lemon on the side. Calamari can sometimes be tough – but these had an incredibly light batter, were cooked just right and tasted sublime once drizzled with lemon.

Another special of Agnello (£16.95) caught my eye on the ‘Specials’ board. When we looked around the restaurant it appeared many people were doing the same because this main course of lamb cutlets on a bed of mash with a rosemary and garlic sauce was incredibly popular.  This looked wonderful on the plate, and tasted amazing. The sauces in Sapori are out of this world and they make very good dishes brilliant ones. The rosemary and garlic sauce was delicious, but in no way did it overpower the dish. The array of subtle flavours was Italian cuisine at its very best.

The lamb was served pink, and I enjoyed every mouthful. There was a lot of meat and because I enjoyed it so much, I paid little attention to the vegetables at first. But once I did turn my attention to some of the carrots, I was amazed at their freshness and how they were perfectly cooked – still full of flavour; they possessed a gorgeous texture that needs to be tasted to be believed. How do they do it I wondered? What was becoming very evident about the food at Sapori was how even the simplest of ingredients like carrots were cooked so very well.

My partner also opted for a ‘Special’ – the ‘Vitello’ - veal, with sautéed potatoes, with a garlic, rosemary and black pepper sauce. The veal was tender with a melt-in-the-mouth texture that was complimented by slices of San Daniele Ham (a superior version of Parma ham). Yet again, the sauce was amazing.

We moved quickly onto our choice of desserts and somehow, things just got better! My choice of Torta Alformaggio – toffee and vanilla cheesecake was definitely a sweet to die for!  This cheesecake was deep, with an amazingly light texture, drizzled with just the right amount of delicious toffee sauce. I wish I had not asked my partner to try some because despite loving her own dessert, she helped herself to a few more mouthfuls of my cheesecake than I expected her to – much to my displeasure!!

Her choice of Coppa Difrutta (a fruit cup in English) was a very pretty dish. Delicate and full of fresh strawberries and raspberries, it proved totally refreshing.

The staff at Sapori are incredibly on the ball when it comes to talking about the food they are serving. Not once did any question we ask receive a delayed response (you know what I mean – when the waiter replies, “Er, this is er, yes, er, actually, let me go and check with the Chef.”) Their knowledge of food, where it is sourced and how it is prepared was quite impressive.

In conclusion, it is somewhat hard to pick holes in the food. Every aspect of our dining experience was memorable for all the right reasons from start to finish and Sapori is a must try for anyone who adores authentic Italian cuisine.

The Zizzi brand has been around for ten years now, so it’s fair to say that they should know what they are doing. We decided to pay their restaurant situated in the Theatre District a visit.

Décor
The first thing we noticed when we walked through the door was the chefs! They were busy at work and could be seen tossing dough in the air in the open kitchen which has a huge pizza oven against the back wall. An open kitchen always adds that little extra to your dining experience. The restaurant walls are painted in a rustic cream colour, the tables chunky and wooden. There are many Italian vases and jars of ingredients around the room which is situated over two floors. Our table had chunky chairs on one side and a booth on the other side giving us extra comfort.
Service
Andre, Tony and Aja served our table throughout the evening. Zizzi believe in working as a team and look after their guests which they did here; making us feel relaxed and comfortable. When our order was being taken they acknowledged our comments and always repeated the order back to us making sure it was correct. We were also asked our names at the beginning of the evening. Tony in particular called us by name when delivering our food and taking our orders, this was a nice touch which is surely not easy to do in a busy restaurant?
Atmosphere

The staff certainly helped in creating a vibrant yet relaxing atmosphere with lots of laughter and conversation. Because of the obvious attention they give to all their diners, we will be returning to this particular Zizzi very soon.

Food

We started with the mixed olives (£2.35) which were coated with herbs and chilli. The Zizzi website describes them as emerald like, firm textured flesh with a nutty flavour. They are right! They were eaten within minutes of sitting on our table. Next!

My guest and I then shared the Arancini (£4.95) which is new on the menu. These are made from risotto, coated in breadcrumbs, mozzarella, grana padano cheese and some peas all rolled into 3 balls. I selected this starter as is looked and sounded gooey and full of flavour. I was pleased with my choice – this dish was both mouth watering and unique. The balls came with a tangy tomato sauce on the side that just needed some more chilli. I added this myself with the chilli oil that was on our table - job done.

Zizzi do not sell dough balls but they do sell dough sticks (£3.75). I believe the price is a little steep for what you get which is about 8 sticks flavoured with infused garlic and rosemary served with a garlic and basil dip. Some of the sticks were soft and some were hard. I could not really taste the promised flavours and to be honest these were all quite bland. The restaurant ran out of dip so we were given plain mayonnaise which did not help.

Mains

My guest then chose the Strozzapreti pesto rosso (£8.75). This is a sautéed, slightly spiced chicken whipped up with crème fraiche, red pesto and springs onions partnered with twirly pasta. My guest does not really like spring onions so these were removed. The dish was of a good size and well worth the money. The pasta was crispy on the out side and gooey in the middle. There was plenty of sauce and the dish was well seasoned. The Strozzapreti was also piping hot on this cold winter’s evening.

I was looking forward to trying the pizza because we had heard all about the Rustica variety that is unique to Zizzi. This pizza is unlike any other because it is far bigger, thinner and crispier. This gives the customer more room for more toppings. This particular pizza is an extra £1.95 but well worth the price. I chose the Sofia with ingredients that included a gorgeous spicy chicken, my favourite pepperoni, a flavoursome roasted sausage which was crisp on the edges, tomato and mozzarella. This was also topped with green chilli and fresh rosemary (£9.25). The pizza arrived on a wooden board that looked as though it had just been chopped off a tree. My guest and I were gobsmacked by the size of this dish......”Wow!” The pizza was so good and filling so tasty that we took half of it home in a pizza box which actually had little room left because the pizza was so big.

Desserts

At this point we were incredibly full and our left over pizza and pasta were already on our table in a brown paper bag ready to take home. After a 15 minute break we ordered the panettone al forno (£5.35) and the torta cioccolata (£4.85).

The pannettones takes up to 15 minutes to bake so that gave us some much needed breathing space. This dish was invented in Milan and is a fluffy, hot bread pudding topped with cinnamon ice cream. This is incredibly filling so I struggled to finish it. I honestly did not notice that the menu stated the dessert was great for sharing. Oops! The hot bread worked extremely well with the chilled ice cream.

The torta cioccolata is thick, chocolaty, rich and comes with vanilla mascarpone. This is a dessert for dark chocolate lovers.

We had a great evening and food was reasonably priced. The large size of the portions stood out. We left feeling looked after and enjoyed the entire experience.

This restaurant review was undertaken on January 30, 2009

Italian food on a cold winter’s evening is such a wonderful treat.  On Friday 30th January 2009 I did just that when I visited Bella Italia in the theatre district of Milton Keynes.

Décor

The restaurant comprises of 3 sections of seating area; the first being adjacent to the main door way into the restaurant ; the second is to the rear of that section and the third is through an archway to the right and which comprises of a raised section which runs parallel to the main pedestrian thoroughfare. The premises were clean, if a bit cramped, but more importantly on a cold night were pleasantly warm. I and my guest were seated by the windows and were relieved to note that there was no draft emanating from them.

Atmosphere

The restaurant had a busy feel to it, especially with two long tables adorned with balloons for birthday celebrations. The sign of people queuing to get into the restaurant is always a good indicator of the success of a restaurant, my only concern being the fact that people had to wait just inside the double door ways right by where people were eating; in fact some people stood between the double doors waiting to be seated. Booking is therefore a must. Typical Italian pictures and art adorned the walls.

Food

The menu is divided into Starters, Mains (which is subdivided into pasta, pizzas and specials), and desserts with liqueurs and drinks.

Our waitress was of Eastern European persuasion and her diction was a bit difficult to understand especially when she was trying to explain the names of Italian dishes.

The average value of the starters is £4.95. I chose the Butterflied King Prawns baked in garlic butter on a bed of rocket with tomato red onion and basil salsa. (£5.50). Four well presented prawns adored the side of the plate with the rocket salad in side. The prawns were slightly dry, but still fairly tasty. The salad was tasty but as with most restaurants was too much. In my mind £5.50 for 4 prawns and a heap of salad is overpriced. It would also have been nice to have had a small bowl of water to wash fingers in. My guest chose the Calamari; squid flowered and deep fried served with lemon mayonnaise (£4.95); a touch of basil or parsley would have added colour to the dish, which was served in a brown glazed bowl. To taste it was succulent, full of flavour with the lemon mayonnaise exciting the taste buds.

I chose the Penne Pollo Crema for mains, which is chicken,	  pancetta bacon, roasted peppers, red onion and penne pasta, topped with parmesan, baked in the oven in a white wine and cream sauce. The meal was somewhat disappointing as the pieces of pepper and onion were far too big for the dish and overpowered the flavours of the chicken and sauce.  There was ample amount of food. My guest chose the Penne Zafferon which cost £9.25. This was smoked salmon with King Prawns with cherry tomatoes, spinach in a saffron and cream sauce. The taste buds exploded with different textures and flavours. The salmon was succulent and creamy and each mouthful was received with a comment or groan of pleasure!!  Well worth the price.

I chose the Cheesecake Mascarpone at £4.75. Presentation was limited and the cheesecake flavour was sharp and certainly cleared the pallet. However the breadcrumb base was very thin and could have been firmer to give a more vivid contrast in flavour and consistency. My guest on the other hand chose the Gioch Napoleon a smooth creamy milk and white chocolate mousse layered with rich dark chocolate truffle on fresh cream. Cost £4.25. Looks can be deceiving and the flavour and contrast in textures and flavours were very exciting and full of rich flavours. The base was thicker and added to the enjoyment of each mouthful.

Overall this was an enjoyable meal and evening. The service was efficient and relatively fast, with waitresses continually moving from the serving place to the tables. The food was enjoyable and overall was, apart from my starter, value for money. An enjoyable evening, and one which I would happily repeat with friends.

This restaurant review was undertaken on July 4, 2009
Never let it be said that we don’t suffer in our pursuit to bring you the most up-to-date food reviews.

This was the overriding feeling we had during our meal at Ask last Saturday. It wasn’t due to the food or the staff (both of which were good) but rather this was due to the relentless heat in the restaurant! 

Situated within the Xcape building, Ask quite obviously will not benefit from opening outside windows, and on a night as warm as it was, the absence of any breeze was all too noticeable.

The restaurant itself is decorated to quite a high standard. Dark wooden tables and floors and low spot lights might give the appearance of intimacy, however the tables are so tightly packed together (40+ covers) that any intimacy is soon lost! There is a trendy looking, dark panelled bar and open kitchen which add to the ‘high-spec’ look and a full mirrored wall along one side. The only things that really let it down where the toilets (which really need a spruce up) and the fact that the main doors to the toilets were left open all night. I wouldn’t have fancied sitting near those!

Did I mention it was hot?! Even opening the front of the restaurant only offered a little respite from the heat. This also meant that the tables nearest the front were opened up to the very busy thoroughfare in the Xcape, exposing diners to the passing Saturday night revellers. Also, this place is loud. You really have to strain to have a conversation. Maybe not the best venue for a first date (unless you’re shy and have nothing to say!) although it does look nice.

Overall we found the service to be very good. We were seated as soon as we arrived as our table was reserved. We did see one couple sitting on the plush leather couches in ‘reception’ they were seated pretty quickly. Our table was a little cluttered, with promotional literature, a tatty looking menu and a small specials board (I don’t know if this was supposed to be here!), but at least we had a bit more space around us than other dinners. Within a couple of minutes our drinks orders were taken by a friendly waitress named Elena, who remained helpful and attentive all night. I ordered a bottle of Peroni (surely a standard in an Italian restaurant!) at £3.20, and my partner went for a glass of Pinot Grigio Blush at £4.35. These arrived in about 5 minutes, and we were then left to peruse the menu.

The menu is pretty much what you’d expect in an Italian restaurant, being made up largely of pizza and pasta, but with a good balance. My partner, who is vegetarian, felt there was a better than average range available for the herbivores among us! There is a decent selection of salads to choose from, as well as a couple of risottos, and also some more ‘exciting’ dishes in the Al Forno (which I believe means ‘From the Oven’) section. We were given about 10 minutes to make our selection, and when Elena returned she explained everything well, made recommendations and was very helpful with regards to substituting ingredients. I would be interested to know if this later information is usually freely offered, as we did have to ask. She didn’t, however, introduce the ‘specials’ despite the board having been left on our table!

I opted for the Calamari (£6.45) which is one of their new additions. I chose this for two reasons; 1) I really fancied it! and 2) because I know how hard it can be to cook right! (Mean of me, I know!). My partner went for her old favourite of Mushrooms al Forno (£4.95). Our starters arrived after about 15 minutes, which I felt was a little too long, but then the restaurant was full to capacity. The Calamari was ok. The fish itself was not in the least bit rubbery as it so often is, but I felt the batter was slightly too thick and over cooked, making it a little oily and clumped together. It was served with a salad garnish and a parsley mayonnaise (well, mayo with whole parsley leaves in it!). The worst thing however, was the extremely chipped bowl in which it was served! In contrast, my partner’s mushrooms were cooked to perfection. Moist and heavy with a rich cheese and light crumbly topping. Maybe they could have done with a pinch of salt, but the hefty garlic mayonnaise offered good lubrication!

Whilst we waited for our mains to arrive, we noticed 2 other diners actually chase down a member of the waiting staff (who to be fair were very busy and constantly floor walking) to ask for help, and one diner actually left because he was too hot! We stopped one waitress, the lovely Abi, to ask about this, and she informed us that the air con hadn’t been working for ages, despite their requests to get it fixed! She did however offer to get us a glass of tap water each without being asked, which was nice and welcome addition.

For the main course, I ordered the Terrina Mediterranea (£9.25) from the Al Forno section, and my partner opted for the Risotto Vegetariana (£8.25) from which she asked the peas to be removed! The Terrina Mediterranea is basically a fragrant chicken and prawn type stew, served in its own pot straight from the oven. When our waitress had eventually wrestled the lid off, the smell was divine! This was probably on reflection, not a great choice that night though, as the heat coming off the dish only added to the discomfort of the night! However, after the waitress generously garnished both my meal and my knees with parmesan, I manfully dug in! The sauce was fantastic, heavy and rich with juicy raisins, olives and huge butterbeans. There was a generous helping of chicken and prawns which were also thick and juicy. Each mouthful really was a different combination of texture and flavours. I made a slight mistake though, in that I ate all the meat along with the accompanying ciabatta bread first, leaving me with half a pot of sauce to get through at the end. Although this was delicious, it did get a bit samey towards the end, and the taste of rosemary became a little overpowering. The only real disappointment was the salad dressing that accompanied the side salad. This was served in what looked like a vase and was far too cumbersome to operate. When I did manage to pour some on my salad, it was too oily and vinegary and particularly unpleasant.

My partner was again delighted with her food. The risotto was perfect, light and fluffy with just a little bite to the rice. The courgettes, caramelized leeks and olives gave it enough body to be satisfying, while the oven roasted tomatoes added the authentic Mediterranean flavour. Although she loved her food and was particularly impressed, as risotto can be a difficult meal to make, my partner did comment that by this point she wanted to hurry up and finish as the heat was so unbearable!

We were pretty full after our meals (Italians love their carbs!) but did bravely choose a slice of honeycomb cheesecake (£4.75) to share, with a big scoop of vanilla ice cream to cool us down! The cheesecake was lovely, thick and creamy and what you’d expect from a pre-made desert in a chain restaurant (maybe could have done with a little more honeycomb!).

We had a brief chat with Chrissie, the duty manager, who explained that they are used to catering for the pre-cinema crowd, so need to turn tables within the hour – we did notice the quick turn around in service. We also noticed some diners taking their time and being allowed to do so. From our observations, experience and from asking other diners, we found that all in all the food and service were pretty good. Ask is a decent mid-range restaurant with a positive image and prices set at the right level. The restaurant in Milton Keynes could probably be even stronger if there were a few less tables and a slightly more ambient atmosphere, although I’m not sure if this would be commercially viable. As it stands, Ask is a good pre-cinema or ‘nice meal out’ venue, suitable for families, couples or the casual diner. There is a range of food which should satisfy the basic pizza lover and the more adventurous. I would advise you reserve a table though as the place get’s packed! We didn’t see it start to empty until at least 9 o’clock. To Ask I would advise – spruce things up a little, but more importantly, get your air-con sorted! The heat really is the predominant memory of the night and could ruin it for some people, which is a shame as Ask offers and delivers on most levels.

This restaurant review was undertaken on October 25, 2008

There are two pizza express’s in Milton Keynes we decided to book a table for two at the ‘original’ Express for 8pm (Midsummer Boulevard) on a Thursday. Midsummer Express has been around for a number of years; keeping it’s standards high and making regular menu changes. As always we were seated swiftly in a modern surrounding.

Décor

The lighting in the restaurant is subtle and dimmed to create a romantic setting. The artwork is eye-catching with lots of character. There is a function room down stairs, which can be booked for private parties all year long. Comedy nights happen here once a month. Keep an eye on their website for up-to-date details. The décor could be modernised but this is only our opinion.

The menu offers the following pizzas as does every Pizza Express:

Sloppy Giuseppe - spiced beef, green peppers, onions, mozzarella, tomato 
Fiorentina - spinach, free range egg, parmesan, garlic, olives, mozzarella, tomato 
Cajun - prawns, red peppers, onions, Tabasco pepper sauce, mozzarella, tomato 
Giardiniera - sliced tomato, mushrooms, olives, red peppers, leeks, petits pois, mozzarella, tomato
La Reine -  ham, olives, mushrooms, mozzarella, tomato 
American Hot - pepperoni sausage, hot green peppers or jalapeno peppers, mozzarella, tomato
Neptune - tuna, anchovies, olives, capers, onions, tomato (no cheese) 
Soho Pizza - rocket, parmesan, olives, garlic, mozzarella, tomato

And Pasta’s 

Lasagne Pasticciate - layers of pasta with béchamel, cheese, Bolognese sauce, Parmesan, tomato
Cannelloni - rolls of pasta filled with ricotta, spinach, Parmesan, tomato

I started with the caesa salad £4.10, which arrives with Cos lettuce, grana padano (an Italian cheese), anchovies, croutons and creamy Caesar dressing. There’s not much to say about this dish apart from it was light, well portioned and opens the pallet ready for any main selection - mine being the Salsiccia pizza £9.45 – meaty Italian sausage, sweet yellow peppers and tangy red onions from Tropea (Southern Italy). In my opinion sausages always taste nice on pizza and this was no exception, I asked my waiter for mushrooms and for my pizza to come as a calzone. This was not a problem having my pizza freshly made by the in-sight chefs, folded and then cooked. Calzone stays hotter for longer than a regular rounded pizza. Give it a try!

My guest raves about the cannelloni £7.95, so again ordered this wonderful dish, rolls of pasta filled with creamy ricotta and gooey spinach make this dish a splendid choice. No starter for him but he did have the 6 dough balls £2.30.

Desserts

We shared a Cheese cake £4.35 - baked cheese cake and sour cream on a crumbly base served with fruit coulis. We also had Tiramisu £4.35 – Italian for “pick me up”, espresso coffee, cocoa, rich cream, mascarpone and marsala sponge fingers. This was a generous portion, fluffy and simply scrumptious.             

Our waitress did not show too much personality but was prompt and efficient and we were left to our own devices. The restaurant had a steady flow of customers, creating a reasonably lively yet relaxed atmosphere which was aided by the jazz music playing away in the background. I felt like a local to the restaurant and found it easy to relax.

This restaurant review was undertaken on October 16, 2009

There are some fine restaurants in Milton Keynes but there is a dearth of very good Italians in the area. The re-opening of Al Tamborista in Stony Stratford however, goes a long way to filling that void.

Decor

It would be difficult to find a better looking establishment than this. It is incredibly inviting with its oak panelled walls and immaculately set tables. For those of you who might want to give this restaurant a try but will need to drive, why not make a night of it and stay in their hotel? The stone façade to Hotel Different Drummer has not changed since 1743 and through a cute side door you will find Al Tamborista.

Food

My guest started with the Anatra fois gras – fois gras with caramelised apple and brioche. This was a lovely introduction to food at Al Tamborista. The fois gras had a powerful flavour and its buttery texture sat particularly nicely alongside the apple and crisp brioche.

I opted for the Pettini con citronella – scallops with lemon grass, ginger and garlic. The scallops are sliced and placed in a line along one side of the plate to create a pretty looking dish. The scallops were perfectly cooked and the lemon and ginger make this a fresh and vibrant starter.

For mains I ordered the prosciutto sposatto pollo – chicken breast wrapped in prosciutto with herb roast potatoes, vegetables and red wine sauce. The prosciutto and chicken are a combination made in heaven and I enjoyed what was a tasty and filling main course. The portions at Al Tamborista are generous and you are guaranteed not to leave this establishment feeling hungry!

My partner chose the stinco di agnello - lamb shank with a tuscan red wine sauce, roasted vegetables and herb roast potatoes. What makes this dish is the roasted vegetables alongside the lamb and the Tuscan red wine sauce proved a wonderful side-kick.

The crème brulee of the day is definitely a must try at Al Tamborista. This version had a hint of grapefruit. Simply delightful, this was an excellent crème brulee with a surprising twist.

Service

Alongside the excellent food you will find a service to match. The staff are very friendly and welcoming. They helped us to feel at ease and we never once felt rushed.

Atmosphere

This restaurant has a real charming feel to it which makes you feel relaxed as soon as you walk through the door. The quiet classical music was in-keeping with the relaxed nature of our dining experience. There was a mixture of diners, from a small group who were celebrating a birthday in style to couples out for a romantic evening.

La Cantinetta Antinori
Palazzo Antinori 3 Tel. (055) 292-234, closed Saturdays & Sundays (you'll want to make reservations in the summer).

In days of old, those fortunate enough to own land in the country would open cantinette to sell the produce from their estates to the city folk -- not a bad idea, if you think about it. Though Antinori is primarily known for its wines, about 20 years ago they decided to revive this custom -- not with a cellar store, but with a restaurant in Palazzo Antinori. It's one of the most comfortable and welcoming places in Florence, and one of the few that's split-level.

I recently had a business lunch, which began with a flute of spumante (dry) to accompany the toasted bread and liver paté we nibbled on while browsing the menu. We settled on sharing a pair of appetizers. One was insalata di lenticchie, a delightful and extremely interesting lentil salad seasoned with curry, fennel and lemon -- a combination that wouldn't have occurred to me but was quite good. The second, bruschetta con il cavolo nero, bruschetta with kale, was less interesting but not less good. Standard Tuscan fare, but perfectly prepared, with a thick bed of kale atop the slices of bread, and just the right amount of good oil. The kale was a little bit salty, to compensate for a lack of sharpness attributable to unseasonably warm weather, and the whole was quite nice. The second course was arista in crosta, roast loin of pork en crust, though crust is something of a misnomer here as the wrap was moist and herby. And quite good, as was the meat, which was extremely tender. There was also creamed spinach, which was simple and tasty. The wine? Cantinetta Antinori features all of Antinori's wines, and is thus an excellent place to taste by the glass. We had Guado al Tasso, a Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend produced at Bolgheri, which was quite nice, rich and enticing of bouquet, and full, round and with nice fruit on the palate.

For dessert, a simple crostata di mele, a delicately made, tasty apple pastry that went very well with a glass of Muffato della Sala, the botrytized dessert wine Antinori makes in Umbria. It's similar to Sauternes, though this vintage had more pronounced fruit and less evident botrytis than the French wines I've tasted. Quite good, however, the sort of wine you could easily spend an afternoon enjoying sip by sip.

The cost? Depending upon what you eat, expect to spend between 35 and 80,000 lire per person (or more if you order a rare vintage). Given the atmosphere, this is more than reasonable. Highly recommended.

Dai Ricchi
Florence, Via Della Docciola 14. Tel: 055/402024 Closed Tuesdays.

Though it has undergone a serious facelift since I first went in 1985, I Ricchi remains a well kept secret. To reach it you really have to drive - there is the number 45 bus (ask the driver when to get off ), but it stops running at 8. Take the Via Bolognese up past Trespiano, the city cemetery, and turn left onto the road for Cercina (right after the turnoff for the cemetery parking lot). The road winds for several kilometers, passing through a couple of hamlets and up a steep hill (turn left at the top of it), and the restaurant is on the left at a spot overlooking the valley, with the cemetary bleow. There is unfortunately no sign, but there is a terraced trellis out front which should help you recognize it.

Once you get there, you're in for a treat: Hearty Tuscan fare, with rich pasta sauces and traditional thick soups such as ribollita to start you off (after the appetizers), as well as lighter dishes such as tagliolini con limone, tagliolini in a delicate creamy lemon sauce. The second courses are excellent; the restaurant is famous for its mixed fried meats, which are dipped in a batter that becomes wonderfully crunchy. Accompany them with mixed fried vegetables and you've got a meal fit for a bishop, especially with the house wine, a young zesty Chianti whose acidity nicely counterbalances the fritto. The desserts are the damnation of the dieter: Massive portions, and so delicious you'll want more. The meringato, interlayered meringues and chilled cream liberally sprinkled with bits of chocolate, is heavenly on a summer day.

Price? Surprisingly reasonable, about 40,000 lire per person. One major quibble: there's no printed menu, and as one person who visited pointed out, this makes it hard on those who don't speak Italian. And a minor quibble: the house wine is now Antinori's Santa Cristina, which seems a little much. Something by the flask would be nice to see.

L'Enoteca Fuori Porta
Via Del Monte alle Croci 10/r (Florence, just outside Porta San Niccoló, on the road up to San Miniato). Tel 055 2342483, closed Sundays

It's a little bit out of the way, but well worth the walk, especially on a pleasant spring afternoon when you can sit outside. What will you find? Nice people, good foods, especially cold cuts, cheeses, sandwiches, and simple first course dishes (though how simple taglierini with a liberal sprinkling of white truffles are is open to debate), and Florence's best wine list -- All the producers in Tuscany make sure the Enoteca has their wines, and you can sample some spectacularly rare vintages -- say a 1971 Tignanello or Monsanto, for example. Nor is it just the Tuscans; the Enoteca has a wide selection of wines from other regions and from abroad.

Perfect for lunch but better for dinner, when you want to spend a quiet hour eating good food, watching the world go by, and talking with friends. Highly recommended. The cost? Variable; if you don't want a whole bottle, or want to sample a number of different wines, you will be delighted by the variety of the 40 wines sold by the glass. If you want a bottle, on the other hand, you'll have hundreds to choose from. Depending upon what you order, figure from 20,000 lire per person on up.

L'Antico Ristoro di Cambi
Piazza del Tiratoio, just off from Ponte Vespucci in the Oltrarno (near the chuch of San Frediano); Closed Sundays

In the past every Florentine neighborhood had a fiaschetteria, a place where people would gather for a quick lunch, and where a segment of the population would pass the afternoons drinking wine by the flask. San Frediano was a poor neighborhood and had several, all hole-in-the-wall type joints whose clientele began to age inexorably in the 70s, as the younger generation adopted other pastimes. The one on the corner of Piazza del Tiratoio boarded up its doors about 10 years ago while the owners unleashed the stonemasons, and emerged about a month later as the Antico Ristoro di Cambi, an elegant eatery catering primarily to the lunch crowd. They still sell wine, of course, but now it's accompanied by a wide variety of salads, first courses, and entrées, things to be eaten by people on the go who don't want to slow down after lunch. I had pappa al pomodoro, a delicious dish made with fresh tomatoes, basil, and day-old bread that was spiced just right, followed by a "springtime salad," which was actually a platter with tomatoes, radicchio, mozzarella, thin slices of pecorino and some bresaola (cured beef drizzled with oil and lemon juice). Tasty, and since the items were distinct the flavors didn't run together.

Elisabetta, on the other hand, had had a heaping bowl of fresh salad and tripe salad, tripe served with thinly sliced fresh tomato and seasoned with olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Both quite good. You can, if you want, order a steak -- the guy behind us did and appeared to be enjoying it, and in the winter the menu changes to reflect the cooler temperatures, with more rib-sticking entrées such as beans and sausage.

The cost? Betty and I spent 39,000, but didn't drink any wine (too hot). If you want something simple, quick and quite Florentine, you should try this.

Most of these except Pinchiorri and La tenda Rossa are 2 or 3 stars. Another possibility if you're looking for something very Florentine is Alla Vecchia Bettola, in Piazza Tasso; 055 224158 (closed Sun-Mon). The food's good, and you'll be seated at a bench where you can talk with your neighbors should you wish. La Baraonda, in Via Ghibellina (055 2341171; closed Sun-Mon) is another classic Tuscan place, and a third is Coco Lezzone (the filthy cook; closed Sun), in via del Parrione, tel 055 287178. If you're interested in a quick meal with a glass of good wine you should walk over to La Volpe e L'Uva, behind the square thei the church between the Ponte Vecchio and Palazzo Pitti. They have excellent cold cuts, cheeses, and pastas, and about 20 different wines by the glass, as well as an incredible selection of bottles.

Moving on to other things, Jayne writes"I would like to recommend a wonderful restaurant in the center of Florence, the Buca Lapi, between the station (SMN) and the Duomo. It's hard to find; if you are walking on the main street from the station towards the market/Duomo, you can stop in any bar and ask directions, or, since it is said to be the oldest restaurant in Florence, any hotel concierge should be able to give directions. Buca Lapi has a Bistecca alla Fiorentina second to none and many other Tuscan/Florentine specialties."

And Mort writes"Florence's Adria 2 Hotel is a jewel of a budget hotel conveniently located near the Arno River, the American Consulate and the city's opera house. It's just a fifteen-minute walk to the city center, the Ponte Vecchio, the churches, museums and shopping. An electric bus also runs by every fifteen minutes and stops at several popular locations in central Florence. The hotel is owned and operated by Leo and Annabella Porzio and their son, Cristiano, who are very responsive and accommodating to guests. Moreover, as natives of Florence, they are very knowledgeable about the shops, restaurants and markets and other places that the locals frequent but visitors miss. Leo speaks perfect English.

And drifting back towards food, Janet recently wrote"Are you familiar with Ostaria dei Cento Poveri? It's not far from the center of Firenze, and I really enjoyed it. Always filled with locals, friendly staff, reasonable prices, good food (esp. seafood), nice wine list (some very reasonable whites from Apuglia, go nicely with seafood)." Hadn't been but I'll go. It's in Via Palazzuolo, 31/r, tel. 055 218 846. Their add in the phone book says wines, cheeses and ready-cooked foods 10-5; dishes cooked to order 7:30-12 midnight.

Also got a recent request for the best place in Florence to enjoy a bistecca alla Fiorentina, the classic porterhouse cut taken from Chianina beef and done over the coals. Since I usually do mine at home, I asked Leonardo Romanelli, author of a delightful little guide called "A Hundred Tuscan Tables" published by Aida.

Near to Wigmore Hall, 2 Veneti is a small and stylish place serving authentic Italian cuisine and offering a wonderful and warm ambience. Chef Luca Conti offers you a variety of primarily Venetian dishes. Bigoli in tocio de anara, Pasta e Fasioi and Fritto Misto are just a few of the characteristic dishes revisited in the menu, full of modern influences. The two friendly Venetian owners, Simon and Stephan, will be happy to guide you, as the gondoliers would do, thought a large variety of Amaroni and wine from the regions of Northern Italy. Here, you can expect the convivial friendliness of a family-run restaurant, coupled with the sophistication of a formal dining experience.

Tucked away behind Hanover Square, 5 Pollen Street is a fine dining restaurant in Mayfair showcasing modern Italian cuisine in a sophisticated setting.

In an exquisite dining room, Pollen Street features contemporary artwork and a refined ambience. There is a sleek bar and an elegant afternoon tea menu is also available.

Al Dente’s low ceilings, tiled floors and wooden tables give the feel of a traditional trattoria. The small space is enlivened by numerous photos, including some of owner Graziano Spano’s home of Bari in southern Italy. Quality ingredients and wonderful flavours are present in the dishes of chef Antonello D’Antonio. Oven-baked figs wrapped in parma ham and stuffed with gorgonzola are assembled into charming flower shapes, a pleasing blend of salty and sweet. The house speciality, pacchino al branzino, consists of short pasta tubes stuffed with a seabass purée, and shelled mussels and king prawns strewn on top. For dessert, a peach tart combines sweet, yielding fruit and a flaky crust. Each month Al Dente holds regional theme nights where a glass of Prosecco, canapés and a five-course menu can be had for around £52. With its intriguing food, excellent service and homespun atmosphere, Al Dente deserves its outstanding reputation.

On a warm May evening my husband, a friend and myself stepped into Tuscany via the magic portals of Al Dente, the Easter Road restaurant owned by the very welcoming and charming Graziono Spano. This was the second of Graziano’s themed evenings designed to introduce diners to authentic regional Italian cuisine accompanied by carefully chosen wines. The small restaurant has been enlivened by a plethora of photographs, including Graziano’s native Bari in the South of Italy and by fresh roses on the tables. 
After canapés and prosecco we had caciucco alla Livornese, a traditional dish of shell fish and fish in tomato sauce – absolutely delicious, as was the white Galestro wine Graziano served as an accompaniment. This was followed by a prima patti of homemade pasta and duck ragout (pappardella al ragu di anatra). The rose wine (rosa di ninfa) which accompanied the pasta dish was my absolute favourite. It really had the aroma and taste of strawberries!
The arista di maiale con rosmarino (pork loin with rosemary, served with artichokes and roast potatoes) which followed melted in the mouth. The potatoes were particularly tasty and I’d love the recipe. This was served with a full bodied Chianti. How did I cope with all this food, you may ask? I simple ate a little of every course, while many of the diners cleared their plates with relish.
The zuccotto sweet of light sponge cake with white chocolate and nuts was the perfect desert and the Il santo wine complemented it perfectly. It was an exquisite conclusion to the Tuscan banquet – Graziano’s answer to “Babette’s Feast”.
Graziano was the perfect host, telling us about the wines, keen to hear what we thought of the food created by chef Antonello. After coffee I floated up Easter Road full of the light, warmth and sheer joy of Italy – as well as all that wonderful food.
The menu, including wines and coffee cost £38 per person. The next theme night features the Lazio region and will be on 29th May. See you there!

I had dinner here in April and it was a rather nice experience. The menu is not like the other more commercial restaurants, it is very honest and very Italian.

The place itself is not stylish but it has an intimate feel to it, I quite liked it.

The owner is very friendly and was happy to help us with the menu, her really made us feel welcome. He really takes running the restaurant seriously.

They only use fresh, quality ingredients and the menu is very good and changes often.

Being located on Easter Road it will be mostly visited by locals but if you want to taste real honest Italian food I think it is worth a try, you will not be disappointed.

Al Duca, set in London's Piccadilly is approaching its tenth birthday. Opened in 1999 as part of the Pulze's 'Cuisine Collection' restaurant group, Al Duca's offers fine Italian food that has earned it a legion of loyal diners. The restaurant itself uses traditional Italian colours to evoke a warm and inviting feel; terracotta, olive and stone along with oak timber and mosaic tiling are used to great effect. The menu is suitably Italian, offering dishes such as tiger prawns with saffron vinaigrette, clam, garlic and chilli oil linguini and calf's liver with spinach, raisins and pine nuts. Three courses here cost an average of £40 per person which could be an offer you can't refuse!

Step off of Leith Walk, almost directly across from the Playhouse, into bright and shiny Al Fresco. Cut from a very similar cloth to its very popular near neighbour and sister restaurant Giuliano’s, Al Fresco is the newest member of the ‘family’ offering a more limited but still ample menu on a smaller scale. Staff are helpful in the extreme, but that doesn’t deter owner Giuliano Binanti from buzzing between the two restaurants, looking after guests, suggesting interesting wine and answering detailed questions on Italian cuisine with humour and warmth. Cold and warm antipasti feature tender prosciutto and soothing meatballs in white wine sauce. A dozen pasta options include sigh-worthy fresh ravioli with porcini mushrooms and truffle oil. Pizza combinations don’t overwhelm the menu but the flexible kitchen will happily accommodate requests and even gluten-free pasta and pizza are always available. Generous mains of steak, veal, stuffed chicken breast and lamb are lavished with tasty sauces, reinforcing the quality of ingredients and a capable kitchen making sound and successful efforts to please.

With a characteristic setting inside the Old Truman Brewery in London's East End, Al Volo Italian restaurant offers tasty regional cuisine, complemented by home-made pasta. Although modern in design, the restaurant's atmosphere is homely and welcoming.

East End restaurants tend to offer very good value for money and Al Volo is no exception. Whether you choose to eat indoors or on the summer terrace, you can choose from a variety of regional dishes, personally chosen by chef Antonio Tonelli and his team to represent some of the top cuisine from various regions of Italy.

Just a short walk from the restaurant, Old Spitalfields Market is a great place to work up an appetite before your meal or take a leisurely stroll afterwards. 4 Tube stations are also within reach of Al Volo, making it easy accessible, so if you are looking for Italian restaurants in London, this contemporary spot makes a great choice for breakfast, lunch or dinner. On Sunday afternoons (from 3pm) you could also join London's original Spritz party to get you in the mood for your meal!

Alloro, Italian for 'bay leaf', was opened to great critical acclaim in June 2000. Since then, this buzzy Dover Street restaurant has become popular with both fashionable local residents and the Mayfair business trade.

Keeping to a simple formula of serving Italian favourites, all pastas and breads are made on the premises and the seasonal menu always pleases. Alloro also boasts Il Baretto, an authentic and typical Italian bar where one can unwind Italian style with an aperitivo before your meal. During the busy lunch period and throughout the day, this bar is also a slightly less formal area to enjoy a quick light lunch or snack and serves as an excellent meeting point for tired shoppers!

In the heart of London's Theatreland, this intimate Italian restaurant offers authentic regional cuisine and superb hospitality. Full of character, Amalfi features a warm downstairs dining area with cosy cellar caves.

For nearly 4 decades, Amalfi - Old Compton Street has been a popular local Italian trattoria. There is a good selection of Italian wine and beer, while the dessert menu features classic Italian favourites like tiramisu, pannacotta and lemon tart.

The delicious menu has tasty dishes like seafood spaghetti with sautéed tiger prawns and mussels in a white wine, garlic and chilli sauce or fiorentina pizza with wilted spinach, egg and mozzarella. Amalfi restaurant has a good range of risotto, pizza and pasta, along with tasty main courses like chicken breast in a king prawn, garlic and cream sauce or spinach and ricotta cannelloni.

On Old Compton Street, Amalfi is a fine Italian restaurant in Soho, serving authentic Italian cuisine in a sophisticated setting.

IS it crazy to fall for a restaurant because of a handful of chickpeas? Tumbling around with pickled currants under crunchy stalks of grilled octopus leg, these chickpeas were smaller and sweeter than usual, less starchy and grainy. Tasting one was like encountering a goldfinch if the only birds you’d ever seen were pigeons.

Still, they were just chickpeas. Is it more logical to fall for a restaurant because of sliced bread in a basket? It was remarkable stuff, with the gradually unfolding nuances of taste that are achieved only through a slow and patient fermentation of dough with wild yeast.

But other restaurants serve great bread. So let’s blame it on the salumi board, with satiny pink and white folds of lonza and capocollo and lardo that melt on the tongue into a lasting impression of salt, pig fat and time. The meats, cured and aged in the basement of Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, are among the finest salumi in the country.

In truth, there were a dozen little tastes that made me fall for this restaurant, which opened on Great Jones Street four months ago and has become New York’s most complete realization so far of a powerful myth: the simple and convivial spot that tastes just like Italy.

That myth is an old one. You go to a small town in Umbria and find your way to some modest trattoria, or maybe a market with a few tables. Then lunch arrives, and the top of your head comes off. Meanwhile everybody around you has their elbows on the table and is acting like food this good is no big thing. And you say, why not? Why couldn’t we have a place just like this back home?

The answer could fill a book, but the abridged version is that the modest trattoria can’t exist without the town. Fantastic elemental cooking requires fantastic elements, and those have to come from the baker, the grocer, the butcher and a dozen other local trades people and merchants.

Still, the myth echoes in many places, from the pursed-lipped pieties of Alice Waters’s cathedral to the open-throated revels of Mario Batali’s pagan temple.

Very few believers have tried to live out the myth by recreating the entire Italian village. But in a sense this is what Donna Lennard and her partners have done at Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, and that is what makes it such an inviting place to have a pastry in the morning, a sandwich and a bowl of soup at noon, and a small feast at night.

First, she built the grocery, the Alimentari part of the name, which carries those earthy chickpeas, along with salt crystals and olive oil with a pepper rasp that catches in the back of your throat. The shop seems at first to be the whole show.

Keep walking. Down a few steps and past a colossal sculptural chandelier that would not look lost hanging in the Guggenheim rotunda is a bright, busy room where people are tearing at pieces of bread, eating off one another’s plates and talking with their elbows on the tables.

Every cliché of the rustic Italian restaurant is on display here: the terra-cotta floor tiles, the handblown wine bottles, the rickety chairs, the overworked servers who are always rushing to somebody else’s table. Get their attention, though, and they will reliably guide you toward the good stuff on the menu and on the wine list.

With six to eight selections from a number of producers, the wine list lets you drink your way through some bottles you might overlook on a more comprehensive list, like the spry Tyrolean whites of Garlider, or the spicy Calabrian reds of Odoardi.

The sooner you order, the faster you’ll get a basket of Kamel Saci’s breads. He makes a dozen kinds, letting the dough gain flavor and structure during a rise that lasts at least 18 hours, sometimes twice that. His bread is not something you munch absent-mindedly while waiting for the first course. It is the first course.

The Alimentari, with its $9 chocolate bars, might be too precious for everyday cooks. But it lets Justin Smillie, the chef of the space in the back (the Vineria), do amazing things with dishes that on paper sound commonplace.

A few drops of specially imported Sicilian anchovy sauce, called colatura di alici, propel a roasted short rib for two to a height of deliciousness that short ribs rarely scale. With a forceful crust of peppercorns and coriander seeds, and crunchy bits of meat that are this restaurant’s answer to Kansas City’s burnt ends, this may be one of the best new dishes in town. Actually, since the same meat reappears as a sandwich filling at lunch, it may be two of the best new dishes.

Bucatini alla gricia is a classic bare-bones production of pecorino, pepper and cured jowl. It is what Romans put together when there is nothing else in the house. When it’s cooked fearlessly, like it is here, you don’t need anything else in the house. Anyone still under the impression that dried pasta is inherently inferior to fresh will be quickly and permanently set straight.

And if that doesn’t work, they should proceed to the spaghetti with bottarga to study the way the mullet roe sauce wraps itself around every strand, sheathing it in creamy maritime intensity. On the night I tried it, I only wished that the spaghetti had had a little more snap; sometimes the pasta station here seems to lose track of time, and a bowl of noodles that should be tensely coiled is allowed to unwind just a bit.

Not that Mr. Smillie spends his days opening packages of spaghetti. He is, after all, the chef who was fired from a doomed East Village gastropub for spending too much at the Greenmarket. (More compatibly, he also cooked under Jonathan Waxman and Dan Silverman.) Somehow in February he hunted down the ripest persimmon I’ve tasted in a year, sending out wedges of it with a grilled quail that had not a hint of the liver overtones quail sometimes gets. And he found tiny beets to plant like tulip bulbs in a snowy drift of ricotta curds, with shiny tongues of white grapefruit on the side.

Still, what makes Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria stand out are the products made in this village-inside-a-restaurant, and above all the cured meats. When Americans first conceived the myth of the great, simple Italian restaurant back home, the one thing that was most out of reach would have been salumi of this quality.

Ms. Lennard first entered the cured-meats business about a decade ago at her first restaurant, Il Buco, a block away on Bond Street. At the time, only a few people in the United States were trying to replicate Italian-style salumi. As they set out to study a very intricate craft, they discovered that even fewer Americans were raising the old breeds of hogs whose thick sheath of sweet, creamy fat is essential to great salumi.

If you somehow assembled the right skills and the right pork, you could still be stopped by the law. Ask Ms. Lennard about that. In 2006, the city’s health department told her that the temperatures in Il Buco’s basement curing facility were all wrong.

“They made my guys chop all this gorgeous prosciutto, some of it two years old, into little pieces, and pour bleach over it, and put it into plastic bags, and poor Bernardo in the morning had to throw them into the garbage truck,” she said by phone.

Bernardo Flores, the butcher in Ms. Lennard’s village, now has high-tech curing equipment in the basement of the new restaurant, imported from Italy at some expense. To devise a safety plan that keeps the inspectors at bay, she hired Christopher Lee, a longtime salumi maker at Chez Panisse.

The work they are doing now, with pork from some of the best pig farmers on the East Coast, is the kind of exceptional reward Manhattan bestows on people who are stubborn, tireless and have the right timing. And on the rest of us, too, if we are lucky.

Eating at the grandiose Machiavelli is like visiting a museum of Italian food — complete with long-winded exhibition catalogs. Reams of paper arrive with the menu, bearing tales of the muralist who decorated the walls, the ceramist who designed the plates, the coloratura soprano who even now is singing into your ear. (There is live music at dinner and sometimes at lunch.)

Stepping in from Columbus Avenue is like discovering a crack in the space-time continuum: suddenly, candelabra are twinkling, the wallpaper is sumptuous, the chairs wide-hipped and warm. The high ceilings swallow sound, making the room peaceful.

It’s possible to have a lovely evening and a very good meal here, but it demands a wiliness worthy of the prince himself. (With high prices across the board, it’s equally possible to leave feeling underwhelmed by bland food and listless servers.)

First, navigate the vast menu, representing the entire Italian spectrum: Roman lamb chops ($37), tortellini from Bologna ($20) and Piedmontese bean stew ($10). Find a safe haven in salads, which are crisp and carefully made. Salumi ($16) are served with hot crescentine, folds of fried dough that warm and bring out the flavor of the meats.

Some of the least delicious dishes are the most upscale, like vitello tonnato ($17), thickly sliced and thinly flavored. Some of the most delicious are the pastas ($17 to $22), like tortelloni stuffed with smoked and fresh mozzarella, all deftly rolled out in a nook behind the bar by the pasta maker, Andrea Fiano, who tolerates the procession of child spectators.

The thin-crust pizzas ($14 to $18) are not the stuff that cults are made of, but they have a satisfying char and chew. Tiramisù, ice creams, sorbets and a profiterole-like dessert called bongo-bongo are fine; the more ambitious desserts, like pine nut tart ($8), do not come off.

The owner, Nathalie de La Fontaine, is clearly committed to the arts (the restaurant even has a music director), and more attention to the culinary arts might help Machiavelli survive on this long-cursed corner.

Ai Fiori is a winning defense of fine dining in New York City that the chef and restaurateur Michael White opened with the chef Chris Jaeckle in the kitchen. It is an emphatic rejoinder to the trend toward farmhouse tables, rustic food and shouting that has so dominated the dining scene in Manhattan at least since the start of the recession. Not really beautiful (it’s on the second floor of the Setai Fifth Avenue hotel), and with service that is not quite formal, it is still an excellent and enjoyable restaurant, with a menu that is a precise and soulful amalgamation of French technique and Italian passion, executed with great skill. It turns an Italian lens on haute French cooking to reveal French food as it might be cooked in Como for a table of aristocrats. Eat this food with wines to match — relatively inexpensive Ligurian treasures pulled forth by Hristo Zisovski, the restaurant’s beverage director — and experience a restaurant that joyously strays from the familiar Italian boundaries of what Mr. White has heretofore cooked in New York.

Sometimes when Brooklyn residents claim that their restaurants are better than Manhattan's — that their restaurants wed equally fine food to a humility too often absent in the taller, shinier, haughtier borough across the water — they are falling prey to local pride and grading on a generous curve. Other times they're talking about Al Di La. It's indeed a special place, an ideal neighborhood restaurant that's become much more than a neighborhood restaurant, a reliable provider of terrific pasta dishes of a northern Italian bent, of braised rabbit and stewed tripe and pan-roasted hanger steak and more. The service can be harried and the plates mismatched, but the prices are reasonable and the payoff substantial.

Waited about 2 minutes before we were acknowledged when we entered the restaurant even though at least 2 members of staff walked past us. The service was okay and so was the food. We were with children and colouring books and crayons were brought to the table immediately which always helps with children. The childrens menu is good value however this is minused out by the price of the drinks for children being over £2 for a small cup!!!

If you're old enough to have vivid memories of the Soviet Union, the idea of a hip Russian restaurant entrepreneur opening flash new eateries in London – this hurts your brain. Can the world really have changed so much, so fast? Answer: yes, and we have the proof in the form of a new Mayfair restaurant, Novikov. It's owned by Arkady Novikov, the undisputed heavyweight champion of the Moscow restaurant business, with 20-odd high-end restaurants in the capital, as well as a chain of budget restaurants, as well as lots of other stuff (Gianni Versace's £26m former villa on Lake Como, for instance).

Novikov
50a Berkeley Street, London
W1J 8HA
020-7399 4330
Open all week, Asian restaurant 7.30am-11.30pm, Italian restaurant 11.30am- 11.30pm. About £160 for two.
The stereotype about Russian food used to be that it featured depressed people toying with pickled things while power-drinking vodka. That may once have been accurate – Novikov himself has spoken of the fact that when he opened his first restaurant in 1992, one of the main problems was the difficulty in getting hold of any meat – but it isn't now. There's nothing like scarcity to make people appreciate the value of something. Every Russian I've ever met is interested in food; no one needs to tell them the virtues of the local, the seasonal and the foraged. The cold war-era Soviet Union was a perfect training in the food values of the 2010s.

It follows that there is nothing inherently ridiculous about the idea of a Moscow restaurateur opening in London; indeed, we already have the highly successful example of Goodman's steak restaurants. It was not written in the heavens that Novikov's new place would be a dog. It is, though – a howling dog.

At least, the Asian part of it is. Novikov is three restaurants in one: Asian, Italian and Lounge. (This last is an idea that has worked well for the owner in Moscow, some of them themed with brand names from the Condé Nast empire, such as the GQ Bar.) I tried the Asian restaurant, and maybe I just had back luck. Lots of bad luck. I certainly had lots of ordinary food.

The simplest way to describe what's wrong is to say you can get most of what's on the menu better and cheaper elsewhere. Kimchi, for instance: you can find superb versions of these famous fermented vegetables wherever there's a decent Korean deli, and they cost only a few quid. Here, we were given two sorts, one featuring spinach rolls with sweet chilli sauce poured over them. Very poor. Seaweed salad? Three different seaweeds, prettily served in three piles on a long dish, with two dipping sauces, one of them nastily sweet, the other nastily salty. Ceviche? Big, underseasoned chunks of fish with equivalent-sized pieces of mango. No. Singapore noodles? These were OK, up to Chinatown standard, though with too much cumin. But for £12?

I said you can get most of the menu somewhere else, but not all of it. Unfortunately, the things you can't get anywhere else are things you don't want to eat. Pork siu mai, a classic squidgy dim sum, are a happy-making thing that don't need to be improved or rarefied, just executed in the version all siu mai lovers already love. The addition of truffle is a subtraction – a costly subtraction, at £9 for four small dumplings. Robata-grilled king crab leg was deeply strange, two decent pieces of crab meat with a "wasabi mayonnaise" on top. The bizarre, faintly sweet, faintly cheesy sauce, which was finished off under the grill, tasted like a mutant béchamel; a really peculiar dish. It was £37. At that price, just be grateful you won't be tempted to order seconds. There's a food counter where you can pick up stuff to take home and cook for yourself, if so moved, but be warned that a single scallop retails for £9.50.

There are aspects of Novikov where you can see real professionalism at work: the room is understatedly dark and soothing; the waiters are amiable and efficient (and quite a few of them are Russian, which may say something about the clientele, too). By concentrating and cross-checking the prices, you can get out for less than £200 for two. On a bitterly cold midweek lunchtime, the restaurant was full. In Mayfair today, this is how they roll.

• Novikov, 50a Berkeley Street, London W1, 020-7399 4330. Open all week, Asian restaurant 7.30am-11.30pm (Italian restaurant 11.30am-11.30pm). About £160 for two.

In this stressed-out, time-challenged era, finding a place for a leisurely-paced lunch "out" has become quite a challenge.
That's not the case, we discovered, at Figaro Ristorante in Enfield. Located in the Westfield Shoppingtown on Elm Street, it's an Italian eatery that offers an Old World midday meal experience.
The ambiance at Figaro is traditional Italian, with plenty of decorative frills and furbelows. As for the menu, it's a comprehensive affair, favoring substantial entree options over the handheld or hasty.
An extensive array of starter choices is listed, with options including Bruschetta ($5.95), Escarole and Beans ($7.95), and Clams Casino ($8.50).
Spaghetti with Meatballs ($10.95) and Gnocchi with a choice of sauces ($11.95) are served, as are Italian entrees such as Chicken Parmigiana ($11.95), Mussels over Linguine ($12.95), and Veal Marsala ($15.95).
Seafood fanciers should take special note; at lunch Figaro serves the likes of Sole Almandine ($13.95), Fried Sea Scallops ($15.95), and Baked Stuffed Shrimp ($17.95).
Starter choices at Figaro, we noted with pleasure, transcend the trite selections offered elsewhere and instead include refreshingly creative choices like the Mozzarella with Tomato ($9.50) we enjoyed.
Handsomely composed to include thin-sliced prosciutto, cubes of Romano cheese, and roasted peppers as well as sliced fresh mozzarella, the presentation offered a spectrum of flavor experiences ideally suited to preface a meal.
True, the out-of-season sliced tomatoes included didn't add a lot to the proceedings, but we definitely enjoyed sharing the rest.
Lasagna ($10.95), an iconic Italian specialty, is done up right at Figaro Ristorante. Served topped with a measure of the restaurant's house marinara, the lasagna deliciously oozes rich, stringy cheese; a decidedly meaty presence complements that cheese goodness.
The portion was generous to a fault, with most of it going home with us in a carryout container.
Chicken Francese, another Italian restaurant standby, is a dish we've encountered in forms from delectable to downright disgusting.
We're happy to report that at Figaro, the Chicken Francese ($12.95) is entirely the former.
The two cutlets of chicken breast featured a golden-brown, egg-enriched crust, while the pan sauce was light-bodied and pleasingly infused with lemon flavor.
Lunch entrees at Figaro Ristorante come with bread and a cup of soup; salad can be added for a small upcharge.
The Manhattan seafood chowder being served the day we visited had a pleasing seafood flavor underscored by a discernable jolt of heat.
Tortellini en Brodo ($4.25) is a favorite of ours, but we're often disappointed with what we're served when we order it.
Not so at Figaro. The broth was bright golden and full of mellow chicken goodness. Not a hint of excessive saltiness or "off" vegetable flavors present.
Plump, freshly cooked pasta pockets floated in the soup along with a hint of minced parsley and some chopped pancetta, both judicious contributors to the overall flavor profile.
A side dish of spaghetti with sauce is also included with entrees in which pasta is not a component.
Though we're not inclined to drink at lunch, Figaro Ristorante is fully licensed and offers a more-than-adequate list of wine and beverage selections.
When it comes to dessert, the restaurant is prepared to tempt with the likes of carrot cake, red velvet cake, and cheesecake with strawberries.
We sampled a Tiramisu Layer Cake ($5.95), a creation that elaborated on the tiramisu "idea". Thin cake layers were brushed with coffee essence before being assembled and decorated with a light-textured, not-overly-sweet icing.
The Cassata Cake ($5.95) paired yellow cake layers with a thick filling of sweetened ricotta, candied cherries, and chocolate morsels. Iced with more ricotta and a ring of marzipan, the cake was a great ending to our meal.
At dinner, Figaro Ristorante offers a similar menu with larger portions (and appropriately higher prices) in force. The kitchen is also happy to prepare gluten free selections when feasible.

Here at Ahlan! HQ, there’s nothing we like more than a reasonably-priced Italian, especially in the dreaded week of extreme poverty before pay day. Luckily, Garhoud fave Da Vinci’s fits the bill perfectly with friendly service, old-school décor, reasonable prices and a relaxed ambience. It’s the ideal spot to catch-up with the girls over a few drinks and a generous helping of comfort food.
There are half a dozen tempting soups from traditional minestrone to onion, if you’re trying to be good, while the other starters, especially the calamari, are big enough to share. For mains, play it simple with a pasta – we love the Roman spaghetti all’amatriciana – or try one of the fabulous selection of pizzas. We recommend the Da Vinci (when in Rome, as they say), which manages to make the combination of apple and gorgonzola, on a tomato base, a completely viable, and surprisingly delicious, option.
For true carb-dodgers, the red snapper and sea bass mains are both amazing value at Dhs70 and Dhs75 respectively, while committed carnivores will salivate over the traditional veal ossobuco. The portion is huge but our date swears it’s worth the calories.
For dessert, we went old-school with the chocolate fudge cake and vanilla ice cream but there are more ambitious options like almond cream cake or chocolate and biscuit loaf, if you fancy something different.
Grape-wise, there are a few reasonable by-the-glass options for around Dhs35 and the choice isn’t half bad for such a low-key spot. Da Vinci’s is reasonably-priced, friendly, with tasty home-style food and an Italian manager – we’re sold!

When is a neighborhood Italian restaurant more than a neighborhood Italian restaurant? When people travel from all over the city to eat there. For example, Giorgio Baldi in Pacific Palisades is such a place (although I personally don't go because they are consistently rude to people they don't know.) Another is the popular Peppone's in Brentwood, where Valentino's original chef has reigned for many years. Paolo's charming Osteria Latini on San Vincente is such a destination, and West Hooker's Locanda del Lago on 3rd Street is another. But the ultimate "neighborhood restaurant that isn't" is Locanda Portofino (1110 Montana Avenue, southeast corner of 11th and Montana, Santa Monica, 310/394-2070, valet and street parking). I have been hearing about it from friends and readers for several years. Elaine Newton, Wayne's ex, has been touting it to everyone, and my ex and her husband go there once or twice a week because they love the food and atmosphere. My buddy, Caroline Graham, lives in that neighborhood and eats there several times a week. And it seems to be something of a celebrity haunt; when Reese Witherspoon and agent Jim Toth (now her husband) first dated, People Magazine noted that it was here. Robert Redford all the time, Owen Wilson, Anthony Hopkins, all often mentioned as dining here. Kate Beckinsale and her mom were here last night. Caroline told me that Venice's regal Count Volpe ate lunch here once a week with Dennis Hopper for years.

This small neighborhood gem is unique in so many ways. Once you pass through the narrow covered patio, you enter a candlelit interior with dark wood accents and many of its 400 wine bottles on display. Maybe twenty tables in all, about 60 seats, with an adjacent semi-private wine tasting/dining room. Yes, it's so Italian romantic. I chose a small table in the far corner and as I was seated I noted a waiter hurrying by with a sizzling platter. "Santa Barbara Prawns," he told me, "Special tonight." "How much," I asked. "Nine dollar apiece," he replied. And I knew what I would be starting my meal with. Andrea smiled when I asked if they had the Spaghetti with Sea Urchin tonight. "Elaine Newton told you about it, right?" Yes, she had, and that was my pasta choice for dinner... a bowl of well-cooked spaghetti with a mild tomato sauce, local sea urchin and cherry tomatoes ($27). As you may discover from reading Yelp's Internet comments, this restaurant is considered rather pricey by L.A. standards, yet I feel it is fairly priced for the quality of the food, service, and ambiance. I noted the two gnocchi dishes on the menu and showed off by throwing out the knowledge that folks in Naples hated to eat potatoes (the food of poor farmers) but loved these little potato/flour morsels. Gnocci alla Sorrentina ($22) is these tidbits with tomato sauce, smoked mozzarella, parmigiano and fresh basil. The Gnocchi al Pesto ($23) is the bits with traditional pesto made with basil, garlic, olive oil and pine nuts. Told the table that pesto sauce originated in Liguria about a hundred years ago.

Riz' Autralian lamb chops ($43), a special this night, were four well-cooked tasty boned chops, one of which I shared. The people at the next table were having the Baked Branzino, a Mediterranean sea bass ($40), which was presented whole to show all and then expertly filleted in the kitchen, serving one hungry diner or suitable for two, served with cooked vegetables. Amber started with the Melanzane all Parmigiana ($18), baked eggplant with tomato sauce, mozzarella, parmigiano and shredded basil, meltingly soft and savory. I ordered the Caprese Salad ($19), fresh mozzarella with tomato, basil, oregano, drizzled with e.v. olive oil (which is excellent here.) A Caesar Salad is $13 and the popular Burrata con Prosciutto was $22. As I said, somewhat pricey but worth every penny. My neighbors were eating a rather unique (for L.A.) appetizer, Alici Fritte, lightly-fried fresh baby sardines ($16), which I made a note of for the future. Every reader reference noted to me that the most popular pasta dish is the Penne with Vodka ($20), a light creamy tomato sauce with shallots and vodka. (You can't taste the vodka.) My preference is the Linguine Positano ($26), linguine (thickened spaghetti) with fresh scallops, rock shrimp, Dungeness crab and rucola in a light tomato sauce. Last night Caroline ordered a delicious off-the-menu pasta, Fagottini, dusted with gorgonzola cheese ($28). A friend told me that she loves the Pollo all Parmigiana ($32), a free-range breaded chicken breast with tomato sauce, mozzarella,, parmigiano and fresh basil.

Many meat and fish dishes on the menu had m.p. (market price) after the description... almost all of the veal (chop, $49), beef, swordfish dishes... which augers well for the restaurant and kind of strange for the diners. And I have noticed that the waiters do not offer prices on the specials unless asked... not my favorite way of operating. But obviously the plethora of regulars here are used to the routine and happily accept it.

For dessert, there are a handful of popular choices... I like the Tartufo, with zabaione cream, chocolate gelato, hazelnut and cocoa powder, and the Ricotta cheesecake. The wine list is full of interesting boutique choices, Italian and domestic, at commensurately steep prices, but hey, it's only money. Brunello di Montalcino is a winner in this regard. I do intend to dine here tomorrow evening and order the m.p. Bistecca ai ferri. a 10-oz. grilled Angus prime New York steak... I know it will be rather costly, but don't doubt it will be delicious. (Editorial follow-up: It was a superb boneless strip steak, cooked slightly beyond rare, served with a potato cake and veggies, for $40. Excellent, but why go to a wonderful authentic Italian eatery for a steak when all those real specialties await you?)

I have been urged by many of the restaurant's regulars not to write this, the first major review ever of the stunning place ("We'll never be able to get a reservation on weekends now"), but my readers' welfare comes first. Call Andrea and mention that you read about it here... it may help.

Open: Nightly from 5pm.

Accessibility: All on one level, with wide doors. The toilets are at the back of the restaurant and involve negotiating a small step.

Vegetarian: Yes, a good choice on a separate menu.

Family friendly? Very. High chairs are available for the toddlers, plus plenty of attention paid to youngsters by the staff.

Parking: Free – on the road directly outside.

Bruchetta: £2.95 Toasted crusty bread served with tomatoes, basil, garlic and artichokes

Fungi Al Algio: £4.25 Mushrooms flambéed in olive oil, soaked in white wine and garlic with a cream sauce.

Nicoletta's Pollo Bella: £9.95 Traditional dish. Chicken cooked with potatoes in a tomato sauce, pasta and herbs.

Lasagne: £7.95 Handmade with fresh layered pasta, home-made meatballs, buffalo mozzarella and basil.

A birthday is always a good excuse for a meal and having spotted Bellezza in Bridlington a few weeks earlier I had earmarked this Italian restaurant for my special meal out to mark my forty-something celebration.

The menu is a great advert for rustic Italian food, with descriptive words such as "hearty", "chunky" and "unique" dotted throughout the menu. However, the statement "for the brave" at the end of some of the dishes made me think that the food portions would be sizeable ... and I was not disappointed.

Our table for four was situated at the centre of the restaurant area and gave us an ideal site for people-watching both inside and out.

After being warmly welcomed and promptly taken to our table, we were given a comprehensive menu and pointed towards the specials board.

A bottle of house white (Verdicchio Classico at £9.99) was promptly ordered and proved to be a such a good choice for the adults, another was ordered later on in the evening.

Starters, shared between our group, consisted of Melanzane (aubergine, ham, tomatoes, garlic and parmesan cheese), prawn cocktail (big, succulent, fresh prawns and crispy salad) and garlic bread (huge). These three dishes were all declared to be packed full of flavour and enough to keep us going for the whole evening.

My wife opted for ravioli filled with lobster, served in a rich white wine sauce. At £9.95, this was good value, especially as the portion was, again, on the hearty side. Having begged a couple of the ravioli parcels from my good lady, I thought I should have picked this classic dish, but when I was presented with my choice of Nicoletta's famous lamb special a few moments later, I knew after the first succulent mouthful I had opted for the right dish for me. The melt-in-the-mouth lamb, which had been slow-cooked all day in rosemary oil and garlic, was perfectly complemented by the rich and slightly peppery cream sauce.

The other two in our party shared a huge cheese and ham pizza (well, they are children), and cleared their plates within minutes.

After a requested break, we started to look at the sweet options, but all we could manage between us was a zingy home- made lemon mousse and a couple of liqueur coffees. The kiddies were quite content to pick at a surprise sweet tree that was brought to our table by the owner with her compliments – a lovely touch to end the evening.

We all declared we had thoroughly enjoyed the meal. The ambiance of the restaurant, service and food quality were top notch.

To top the evening off, the bill came to just over £60 for the four of us, and that was including two bottles of wine, lots of soft drinks and coffees. It was excellent value.

Bellezza is a relatively new venture, and a lovely place to enjoy good, wholesome food in welcome surroundings. Well worth a trip to Bridlington for.

Type: Rustic Italian ... just like mama used to make (according to the owner).

Quality of food: Top notch.

Atmosphere: We went early, but it soon got busy.

Service: The staff were extremely pleasant and helpful.

Value for money: Exceptional: prices were good on all food and beverages.

Best for: A great meal out for families, couples or groups, and it won't break the bank.

Would you go again? I have been since and it was still excellent.

By RICHARD BATH 
Published on Tuesday 21 February 2012 00:00

SOMEHOW our destination got lost in translation, and when I turned up at Jamie’s house, just outside St Andrews, he was dressed to impress. He took a look at my threadbare tailoring and I could see the cogs turning. After only a few seconds of talking at cross purposes, he twigged. “So we’re going to Rusacks,” he said, his bottom lip trembling slightly. “But I thought we were going to ...”

He soon pulled himself together, but I could see his point. Born and bred nearby, he knew Rusacks of old and his experiences there weren’t always the best. They could be entertaining but the grand old hotel by the 18th fairway and green at the home of golf wasn’t always so much chic as shabby.

On the way there, he remembered receiving a flier about the restaurant at Rusacks – he hadn’t understood it so had put it in the bin. A pity because it was designed to tell Jamie, a keen foodie, about the changes at Rusacks, where the restaurant is still within the hotel but has been hived off to a separate company and rebranded as Rocca. It’s part of a plan by Macdonald Hotels to take its restaurants upmarket, a strategy that has worked elsewhere – especially in North Berwick, where the fine-dining restaurant John Paul at the Marine is worth travelling for.

Many of us tend to get rather fixed views about nearby places so Jamie was staggered when we walked into Rocca and found a rather swish, modernistic restaurant that bore little resemblance to the place he inhabited in his teens and early 20s. What we found was a sumptuous, classy space that looked like a cross between Prestonfield and Blythswood Square, except for the fact that the 90-cover restaurant has remarkable views over the Old Course, with one window table looking straight on to the 18th green and R&A clubhouse. It’s a combination that ensures high numbers of golfers – the Europeans come in the spring, the Americans swamp the place in the summer – and ensures suitably high falutin’ prices.

Rocca is the lovechild of owners Adrian and Susan Pieraccini, whose CV includes Rocpool in Inverness. Behind the scenes is head chef Scott Davies, who arrived at Rocca from being sous chef at Glenapp Castle, but who has also worked at the Isle of Eriskay and the Point in Melbourne. Adrian does front of house and comes across as a knowledgeable, friendly soul, particularly when it comes to the restaurant’s eclectic and Italian-heavy wine list. But I would guess that it’s his chef who wears the hobnail boots in this relationship because, while Rocca advertises itself as an Italian restaurant, it’s nothing of the sort: if the view is 100 per cent Scottish, so – notwithstanding some conspicuous Italian flourishes – is the menu.

Jamie started with the roasted wood pigeon with porcini ravioli, chestnut purée and Umbrian lentil sauce, and was blown away. All of the fripperies were excellent, but it was the crimson chunk of heavenly pigeon, which had been cooked to perfection – so good, in fact, that it reminded me of Keith Braidwood’s signature dish – that really stole the show.

Against all expectations, my Armagnac-marinated foie gras and confit duck was every bit as good. Once again, the accompaniments – elderflower jelly, rhubarb and crispy sliced sourdough bread – added considerably to the overall effect. But it was the discs of velvety smooth foie gras and duck, all tinged with an unmistakable twang of brandy, that really made me sit up and take notice. This was top-quality food produced by a sure hand.

Both our main courses continued in the same vein, with superb dishes that sounded like culinary overkill on paper but in which the ingredients were allowed to hog centre-stage. My trio of loin, belly and shoulder of lamb was a case in point: this came with a cauliflower and cheddar purée and reform sauce but the meat was almost unadorned, and all the better for it. Succulent and tender, this was a dish to savour.

Jamie was similarly pleased with his beautifully poached and roasted corn-fed chicken, which came with stuffed wings (that at first sight resembled ancient chipolatas), surprisingly good stuffed pumpkin gnocchi and white beans and chorizo, pulling together a classy combination of ingredients. As an amateur jockey who watches his weight, he eats chicken as penance for half the year: this, he said, was as good as any chicken dish in recent memory.

As the non-weightwatcher of the duo, I was a lone grazer when it came to pudding, so I chose assistant manager Mark Roger’s favourite dish. A local boy from Cupar, Roger had recognised me, partly because I was none too complimentary about the pudding he produced in a former life, as sous chef to Geoff Smeddle at the nearby Michelin-starred Peat Inn. This time the crunchy lemon cream with salted crumble and iced almond yoghurt he recommended was technically brilliant and looked like a gastronomic work of art – it was a sort of lemon crème brûlée without the sugary crust – but it was too subtle by far, with the cream needing more lemon and the yoghurt needing more almonds. It was a near miss, though, and the fact that we were judging the food by such high standards says a lot about the way our expectations had changed through the meal.

If I had to come up with any other shortcomings, I’d mention that there appears to have been no consideration to vegetarians, let alone vegans. Nor, unless you choose the set menu, is Rocca cheap, although that’s a fair reflection of St Andrews these days. Yet to look for downsides does the place a disservice because for every gripe there are two or three reasons to be grateful – not least the excellent wine list, swanky surroundings, impeccable service and, most importantly, a cliché-free menu that mixes innovation and excellence in equal measure. As a puzzled Jamie said, “It’s bloody good here, I wonder why I didn’t come sooner.”

• Rocca Bar & Grill

Macdonald Rusacks Hotel, Pilmour Links, St Andrews, Fife (0844 879 9136, www.roccagrill.com)

• Bill please

Starters £7.95-£12.95 Main courses £12.50-£25.60 Steaks £23.90-£29.95)

Puddings £7.95-£8.75 Cheese £7-£9.50 Winter set menu £20.50 (two courses), £25.50 (three courses)

Altrincham has added a new addition to its already burgeoning ranks – Coco’s Italian restaurant.

Located on Regent Street close to the main high street and the back streets of Belgian and European bars, it houses a small bar and long restaurant that splits into two. I met with my family as we were quickly greeted and seated in the front part of the restaurant, close to what looked like a rather fantastic window seat looking out into the bustling back streets of Altrincham.

After browsing the rather extensive food and wine menu, I plumped for a pint of the Italian Birra Moretti and chose the ‘Gamberoni Aurora’ as my starter – king prawns baked in garlic, fresh herbs, cream and Napoli sauce topped with mozzarella and then baked in an oven. 

The Birra Moretti had an instant dryness to it, but had very little malt flavour which resulted in a rather light offering.

Once my starter arrived, a nicely presented fanned casserole dish with 5 large king prawns sat in the middle of the garlic and herb cream sauce, with the lightly baked mozzarella layered on top. A unique idea that I’ve never come across before, I thought it made a change to the usual prawn cocktail. Perfectly cooked, the king prawns were piping hot, with the sauce a great compliment that didn’t look greasy or burnt around the edges.

Once the starters were finished, my Calzone was on its way – a folded pizza with ham, mushroom, garlic, salsiccia and mozzarella served with a bolognese sauce. Brought out with simplicity being the aim, the calzone was presented in the middle of the plate, with the bolognese drizzled in the middle that let the sauce slowly branch out.

Once again piping hot, there were good portions of the fillings, with only a small hint of garlic which didn’t overpower the meal. The mozzarella was light and didn’t ‘clog’ the mouth as I took each bite, which you can sometimes get with regular home-made pizzas.

All dishes were made to order, resulting in a little waiting time between courses, however the ambience and feel of the place made it enjoyable. Conversation didn’t have to be on shouting level, the music had authentic Italian artists singing songs you would tend to find in a cafe square and the light colours of the walls mixed well with canvases of night skylines and drawn flowers – all which are available to buy.

My meal at Babbo was random, didn't know I was going there until about 15 minutes prior to walking in the door.  We had reservations at Otto, and decided to pop into Babbo to see if they had a table, and luckily they said they did!  Unfortunately we wound up still having to wait about 45 minutes, but it was worth it.    Babbo is one of Mario Batali's most lauded restaurants, arguably only behind Del Posto.  Oddly enough, it lost its 1 Michelin star in 2009, while Casa Mono still has one.  Casa Mono is great, but not to the same caliber of Babbo, in my humble opinion.  

We had the traditional tasting menu, and it was amazing.  Odd note - it was half savory and half sweet - a bit odd for an 8 course tasting. The menu was as follows:

Babbo Culatello with Ramps and Pecorino
Langhe Arneis - Brandini 2010

Pappardelle with Chanterelles and Thyme
Vespa Bianco - Bastianich 2009

Duck Tortelli with "Sugo Finto"
Pallagrello Nero "Terre del Volturno" - Vestini Campagnano  2006

Grilled Guinea Hen with Pumpkin Fregula and Black Truffle Vinaigrette
Eneo - Montepeloso 2008

Coach Farm's Finest with Fennel Honey
Tocai Plus - Bastianich 2006

Gelo alla Val di Non
Moscato d'Asti - Brandini 2010

Chestnut "Palacinche" 
Montemaggiore - Occhipinti 2008

Sweet Potato Spice Cake with Lemon Mascarpone
Valeo - Odoardi 2007

Favorite dish was the Papperdelle with Chanterelles and Thyme.  It was just perfect and delicious.  Creamy and cooked to perfection.  Least favorite dish was the chestnut Palacinche.  Was about 8 layers of crepes-like dough cut, with chestnut filling between each layer, pressed, and cut into a pie slice.  Partially because I'm not a huge fan of chestnut, but I found it too heavy, a bit of a smack in  the face.  Would have enjoyed something a bit more subtle.  The main protein, the guinea hen, was done very well, and the truffle was very light - barely noticeable.  And the cheese and honey was pretty amazing. 

Wine parings were spot on , they each complemented the dish as you would expect.  

Service - was a bit on the slow side, I attribute that to the fact we were walk-ins and were sat in the bar area.   But our waiter was extremely knowledgeable and had a whole spiel about each of the wines going with the meal. 

Price -  I would normally say $69 for an 8 course tasting is great, especially at the caliber of Babbo, however the fact it was only 4 courses of savory, means it's about on pair with normal.  Wine parings are an additional $50 ($95 if you're going with the reserve selection).  Two tasting courses, one with wine paring and one with just 2 glasses, came out to a bit over $300 (incl tax and tip).  

BONUS - Celebrity spotting.  Saw both Ron Perlman (cool!) and Guy Fieri (meh) while there.
Italian is great once in a while but Babbo is great all the time. I'd take it any time, any day. It's really warm and super classy. The place is really small and charming. It's a quintessential NY hidden gem. It's not what you expect when you come inside because it's not very show-y on the outside.  The decor is home-y yet sophisticated. Seemed like the average age of a customer is towards the mature spectrum but I think this place is perfect for an intimate date night.  My experience here was nothing short of amazing. We spent the first hour just choosing through the wine list and enjoying our bottle.  This place has a wide array of good wines.  The first waiter was very but did not seem too informed on wines, while the second waiter we got was a total pro.  Dining service is AWESOME because they just roll in the food like it is a feast in a very timely and professional manner.  One of the best services in town.  The pasta is as good as everyone says.  It satisfies the soul.  
FOODS:
Appetizer:
Arugula Salad, Squid, 
Dinner:
Duck, Black pasta,
Finally. After placing what felt like way too many calls to Babbo only to hear the maître d' respond with disappointing news, I finally was able to lock in a normal dinner time on a weekend. I oddly expected this experience to be disappointing after the hype / build-up, but, thankfully, I was impressed.

The food is fantastic, the prices aren't crazy, and the service is pretty good / attentive. 

We enjoyed the goat cheese and Neci con Funghi. I thought my duck was cooked perfectly - fatty and filling. Desserts were on point but nothing to drive a girl crazy. Don't think this is a spot to run to for vegetarians, though. While there are definitely a few pasta dishes without meat, they don't seem nearly as generous as the other menu items.

Overall really enjoyed my experience at Babbo and will definitely come back.
My first time eating at a iron chef restaurant :D :D! Super excited. We tried to make reservations 30 days before at 9am, but we had to try back several times and by the time we got through they were completely booked. GEEZ LOUISE! Anyway, we showed up around 830, since they have dining area toward the front that caters to walk ins. The wait was 1 1/2 - 2 hours, we knew what we were up against so we grabbed a snack earlier in the day. So we walked around Chelsea and came back 1:20 later. We grabbed a drink at the bar and before you knew it it was our turn. They have an extensive wine selection and friendly knowledgeable bar staff. Love.

We shared the prosciutto with pepper. I cannot explain why but the spiciness of the pepper paired perfectly with the fatty prosciutto. It was exquisite.I ordered the orichette sweet sausage and rabe dish. It was delicious. The orichette was perfectly al dente and the bitterness of the rabe paired extremely well with the sweet sausage. NOMNOMNOM. For dessert, we shared the gelato and sorbet platter. It came with a variety of gelato and sorbet flavors, such as: tangerine, green apple, olive oil, hazelnut, espresso, etc etc. All were delicious. Although it was nothing to die for, so I would skip on this and order something else on the dessert menu.

All in all Mario Batali did not disappoint. I guess his iron chef title is well deserved. The decor inside Babbo is class. The staff is friendly, accommodating, and knowledgeable. Definitely a NY must try. A great dining experience!
Believe in the fat man.
h Mario...why have you forsaken Babbo?
My first visit to Babbo was back in 2006 for my 30th birthday. Our party of 6 had the traditional tasting menu with paired wines and the meal and service were excellent.

Went back this past Saturday and although still a great meal, it was a bit uneven. We had reservations for an ungodly hour (5:45!!). But I forged ahead...it actually ended up working out great.

For starters, the entrance was MOBBED. MOBBED at 5:45!!!! Walk-ins? Over booked? No idea but it was unpleasant. And because the clientele wasn't exactly the classiest I've seen, it felt like I was at a really crowded bar and being continuously jostled by overeager d-bags trying to get to the bar.

We had a nice table along the wall on the first floor. Two of my companions ordered the arugula salad with shaved Parmesan. It looked simple and tasty but not very special. I ordered the buccatini all'Amatriciana and it was out of this world. The past was perfect, the flavor was rich and meaty. I wish my buccatini came out like this.
My fella had the Chianti stained papardelle with wild boar ragu. While the falvor was excellent, the texture of the pasta was not....it was clumped and glued together in a big old mess. I know papardelle suffers from this on occasion but to be honest, I expected a whole lot better from a Batali establishment.

My beau and I shared the deconstructed osso buco for two and I was underwhelmed...to be really honest (and downright obnoxious) MY osso buco is way better. The texture of the shank was tender but the flavors were underdeveloped and not as rich as I would expect from a dish like this. The orzo that accompanied was tasty if uninspired and the star of the plate was actually the broccoli rabe with garlic. I would have eaten an entire plate of that stuff.

We did order dessert and I had the saffron panna cotta and it was only ok. Not great, not bad, just ok.

I had such high hopes for this meal and I was a little disappointed (except for my bangin' pasta dish and the broccoli rabe).

Service was very good and I must commend the bartender on an excellent Manhattan.
had the tasting menue.  everything was spectacular.  pasta was simple and perfect.  quail was crispy skin and amazing.  the three deserts (yes, three!) were all mind blowing.  the best was the olive oil rosemary cake and the olive oil gelato.  i know, sounds strange but was great.  cant wait to save up enough money to come back
Me and the GF came in for the pasta tasting...Damn that ish was good!

We decided to start off with 2 non pasta dishes before we went on full blown carbo overload.  Got the lamb Tongue salad with Poached Egg and the Octopus dish...Both of these dishes made me feel all warm and tingly inside.

Best pasta I have ever had in my life...End of story...It was a joke how good it was...

The desserts were a total suprise for me.  Generally I am not a fan of italian desserts at all...But they hit me with and olive oil cake with gelato that kicked the sh!t out of my taste buds...Then they busted out some sort of cake with a concord grape sauce, honey and a milk ice cream...Unreal...

Top notch service without being overbearing...

I love this place.
I'm a bit biased since we got special treatment on top of dining with Gwen Stefani at practically the next table.  We had a complementary octopus salad which, according to my love, was decent.

I had a pasta dish that was standard, nothing to yelp like a dog over.  Basically, food-wise, I'm giving it a 3.  Treatment wise, 4.

The waiter was nice and prompt, and my friend from highschool, working as the pastry chef, presented us with a table covered in desserts.  I was Marie Antoinette that night.

Yummmy yummmy yuuuuuummmmmy
I have eaten here several times and I can tell you we are never disappointed (except for 1 thing mentioned below). Love love love the roasted chicken!! We also had the mussels which were phenomenal. This is a very cute and small place so expect to wait if you go prime time. Its well worth it though! My only con with this place is the waitstaff. I am so sad to write this because I really love this place but a few times now we have gotten snotty waiters. I still recommend going there...just cross your fingers that your waiter is a good mood that night. Regardless I don't think you'll be disappointed in this place.
I was here for my birthday and got the traditional tasting menu. I think Mario Batali did a wonderful job here. The restaurant itself is beautiful. I remember an opulent flower arrangement on the center table that I couldn't stop staring at.

The tasting menu was marvelous, each course made us think, savor, and oftentimes melt with glee. The house made pappardelle was a standout. The pasta here is so soft, it melts a little in your mouth. Delicious. The cheese paired with the fennel honey was also so good, I kept lapping up the honey. 

All in all, it was a delicious culinary experience, and definitely worth a try. Given that this is a Mario Batali restaurant in bustling NYC I shouldn't have to say this but: make a reservation.
I reserved at the 30 day-on-the-nose-at-9am mark. I waited about a minute on the line before I got through. Apparently, using 1 phone and not having to redial is considered being lucky.

Between the two of us, we ordered 1 app, 2 primi, 1 secondi, 1 contorni, 1 dessert. Asked them to split-plate the primis. And we were happy. After the free chickpea bruschetta they gave:

-Lamb tongue vinaigrette with chanterelles and 3-minute egg: This was awsome; if you like pulled meats and runny eggs, this is for you. I grabbed some scarpetta and started mopping up the sauce. Should've stood up for myself when the waiter took the "empty plate" away.
-Beef cheek ravioli: Again, soft and tender meat. I have never tasted pasta al dente to this effect. Generous amounts of gravy was a great idea.
-Chianti stained pappardelle with wild boar ragout: The pasta and meat were very tasteful. Unfortunately, the noodle stuck together because there was not enough sauce; I had to knife out squares of pasta.
-Duck with fig vinaigrette: An amazing dish of duck, cooked two ways. The waiter recommended a pairing with:
-Brussel sprouts with pancetta: This can make a fan out of anyone who dislikes this veggie. The savoriness is cooked right through the softened sprouts.
-Warm apple and fig budino with caramel apple gelato: probably not as impressive as their crostatas or assortment of gelatos.

With a bottle of Greco di Tufo Pietra Rosa Di Prisco (had to make a self-memo of this one), I'd say we had a memorable dinner. Cost: $160 before tips. We enjoyed the freedom of the a-la-carte menu over the tasting menu, which I've heard is excellent too, but not as filling. If I had more stomach room, I'd get the grilled octopus and the goose liver ravioli. I'd come back, if not for the craziness of the reservation system.
We could only get a 5.30pm dinner reservation but actually it was perfect as we could enjoy each course and not rush!  The service was amazing.  Attentive but not too stuffy.  You need to dress up a bit.
Delicious from start to finish!  The lamb love letters were exceptional.  The beef melt in your mouth and was beautifully seasoned.

The wine lsit was extensive and as we love our wines we had a long chat with the sommelier and found a full bodied red from the Veneto area.  It was decanted and really added to the food.  There are flagship dishes which they are happy to recommend.  I would try the Antipasta platter.

I think that this was a touch of real italian food.  Having been lucky enough to take my mom here with all the family it was as they say what Mamma wanted and .....Babbo delivered.  I think we might have been able to have a tour of the kitchen but we didnt ask.  Next time!!!
I don't know why I've never eaten at Babbo before since it's in our neighborhood, somehow we always end up at Lupa or Del Posto when we crave Mario Batali's food. Since it's opening in 1999, Babbo is famously hard to get a reservation at, but I called  at 7:00 last Monday night and asked if they had an early table for 2. They offered me 7:15. Cool! Nothing like having a craving for an Iron Chef's food and sliding right into the chair! 

We're not big eaters, so I had the spaghettini with spicy budding chives and 1 pound of lobster. Hudson had the whole grilled Branzino with roasted cauliflower, olives and  a lemon oregano jam that just knocked our socks off. The smokey grilled flavor of the fish and that jam were perfection! We shared the rapini with rested garlic for the perfect meal.

My only recommendation is that lobster can be awkward to cut into bite sized pieces with a butter knife and my lobster was served in 3 large hunks that I hacked and pulled at to get into fork-sized pieces. No real hardship however. While the Branzino was first presented whole and then removed for filleting, it was finally plated with a number of pin bones in it. I took 2 bites and got a bone in each, Hudson made a little pile on his plate for all of the bones he carefully extracted from his mouth before swallowing.

Seated upstairs we were surrounded by no less than 5 waitstaff and a sommelier, but the service was lacking. We were checked on once and had to flag down a food runner for our check.

I'm giving Babbo 4 stars because the flavors were there, the restaurant was cozy and I will certainly return.

See you there!

Ivy
We graciously replied to a invitation by old friends to dine at this restaurant. It's been around for years and its famous owner/chef has made quite the name for himself. I was a little reluctant because we've been to a few Batali restaurants in Las Vegas, and have been so sorely disappointed. I figured the NY location has been around longer and probably is better. 

Well, not really. First, the person receiving newly arrived diners was terse. He would not seat us until everyone was present. Then he proceeded to say he needed the tale by 8:00 pm. But it was only 5:30 pm. We promised to be out before 8:00. We had to keep persuading him that it would make better sense to seat us sans one person and we would order for him. He can skip the appetizers if he's late. But he can certainly make it to the secondi or the main course. Ayyy! The man was infuriating!

The food was quite ordinary Italian fare. And again, as is the signature of zbatali, soooooovsalty! I had to keep on drinking water. The black spaghetti was just that--black. Nothing else. My guinea hen was burned and salty. The dessert was described on the menu so well: a cake with apples and nuts or something. It was like a breakfast muffin! I found the food and the wine overpriced. I'll take La Bernardin or Per Se anytime over this! I will not go back. The maitre'd can have his table!
Getting a Saturday night dinner reservation here is difficult. Getting a Saturday night dinner reservation at a normal dinner hour is pretty much impossible. Be prepared for a late-night meal, even if you make reservations weeks in advance. 

Was it worth starving all day and waiting until 10:30pm to try Babbo's pasta sampler? Heck yeah. However, even though I enjoyed all of the pasta dishes, the single menu item that stood out to me was the dessert - chocolate "al diavolo". It's like magic in a ramekin. If it wasn't for the elegant restaurant setting, I probably would have started to lick my plate clean...(seriously).

Perfect place to go if you like Italian, love chocolate, and are looking for a fancy restaurant without the fancy restaurant snobbishness.
I had been meaning to check out Mario Batali's place for quite some time due to its rave reviews and celebrity status. But holding such high expectations may have hindered it in the longrun and I was somewhat disappointed.

After having to place a reservation one month in advance, an inconvenience of sorts, I still had to wait awhile to be seated when I got to the restaurant. Luckily the food, on the other hand, didn't take too long to come out. I ordered the Black Spaghetti because I've never had pasta with squid ink before and it sounded interesting. Unfortunately, it ended up being a lot saltier than expected and my tastebuds needed constant hydration throughout the meal. The same can be said about the Rapini with roasted garlic which seemed doused in salt.

Maybe it was just those dishes, or a fluke of the night, but I can honestly say I've had better dishes at other less-known Italian restaurants.
My boyfriend and I are obsessed with Mario Batali. With that said we decided to try Babbo for my birthday and it did not disappoint.

The food was exquisite and made with the best ingredients not to mention the wide selection of wines. The menu was definitely different than many of the other Italian places I have experienced and I loved every second of it. The place was not as intimate as I would have liked and dinner felt rushed for the fact that our time did not allow for a tasting menu. Putting that aside, definitely one of the best Batali restaurants in the city. However, Del Posto wins for being more romantic and intimate. That might explain why one has a Michelin Star and the other doesn't.
Pasta tasting menu is divine! The chef will allow one substitution per order. Desserts were original and unbelievably delicious. Definitely make a reservation a full month in advance and arrive before 6 pm- it is worth it for the experience. One star off for pricing.
This dinner was like a fairytale!!! Probably the best dining experience I've ever had in my life!! Holy food orgasm in my mouth!

I apologize in advance as this review is going to be a long one... but my dinner lasted 4 hours - so seems appropriate! 

The Ladies and I sat down to our 10:30 (yes, getting a reservation here can be a bit crazy) resy on Saturday night to celebrate the Holidays. Oh boy! Did we ever celebrate - Merry Christmas to meeeeee! We did the 8 course pasta tasting and wine pairing. Upon ordering our wonderful waiter Joe asked us if we had anywhere to be... When we told him No he said "good, because you're going to be here for a while, and you're going to leave pretty drunk - I have a heavy hand." With that he poured a rather full 1st glass of wine and the evening was off and running. 

First, the atmosphere. Babbo has this wonderful warm friendly vibe when you walk in. A great place for a celebration it is festive without being over the top dressy and snooty. You walk into a townhouse and it's almost as though Mario himself is going to greet you and thank you for coming over for dinner when you climb the stairs (ha, well one can dream!) 

Second, the wine. FFF made me promise to mention that for the quality of restaurant there are a lot of affordable options on the wine list menu that are very good wines. However, we opted for the wine pairing. It's a great value and each wine is very well chosen for each course. The food really brings out the flavor of the wine nicely. 

Next, the service. Babbo really has their act together and the service is nothing short of 5 star quality. Even though we did the 8 courses we were never rushed and everything was presented with special attention to the detail of each course. Everyone from start to finish was beyond friendly and went out of their way to make our dining experience special. Our waiter was very fun and kept us laughing until the wee hours of the night.

Lastly, the food (Oh the food!!).... Oh my god, I thought I had died and gone to heaven! Each course was so amazing and different from the last. I have a new found love for my main man Mario!! I will be dreaming of Black Tagliatelle, Papparadelle, and Olive Oil cake for months to come. For the quality of the meal this tasting menu wasn't outrageous price wise (especially compared to some of its competitors). I think it was about the 4th course when I turned to FFF and whispered "Can we please come back here for my Birthday??!!"  

We closed the place down and rolled (literally) out around 2am, waving goodbye and thanking all of our wonderful new friends at Babbo. Annnnndd... the kicker to end a completely perfect evening: there was a cab across the street when we walked out (unheard of in the W. Village at 2am)! If only all Saturday nights could be as magical as this one!
I knew of Mario Batali, but can't say I'm a huge follower (the benefits/detriments of not having cable). Nonetheless, I was super excited to check out Babbo. It's a precious little spot off the beaten path, and the upstairs space is really ideal for a nice dinner. Downstairs was a little to bumpin' for me: super loud music and a hell of a scene, so if  that's what you're after, that's where you should be. If you're there moreso for the food and actually want to hear conversation with your dining partners, make your reservation upstairs.

The food was as good as I had expected. I started with the Autumn Vegetable Salad and it was absolute heaven: fall on a plate. Roasted root vegetables, goat cheese, but so much more complex in flavor than similar salads I've had. For my entree I went with the servers recommendation: beef cheek ravioli. I've never had beef cheek before, but it was super tender and all parts delicious. The pasta was a winner in and of itself: handmade pasta really can't be beat. Take note, they're happy to split pasta courses up to three ways if you want to sample several with your table. 

Service was on point, with dishes being served simultaneously and with precision. We felt a little rushed given our late (9pm) reservation, but given the crowds when we left I suppose I can understand it. Also, while the sommelier seemed knowledgeable, she wasn't especially attentive and we didn't love the (rather expensive) wine she ended up selecting. 

All in all, I'd highly recommend Babbo to anyone visiting NYC. It was nice to get away from the hustle for a bit and appreciate New York at a different pace.
I was initially skeptical about eating at a Mario Battali restaurant because his Vegas hotel restaurants are always barren during prime dinner hours.  After making a reservation a month in advance and nabbing the last reservation for that weekend, I figured it couldn't be that bad if they were this busy.  Boy am I glad we decided to come here, the food I had that night was pretty amazing.  

My favorite dishes of the evening were: the Osvaldo Prosciutto (apparently the story is that Joe Bastianich smuggled them in past customs), Beef Cheek Ravioli, Goose Liver Ravioli and Grilled Lamb Chops.  Portions are surprisingly generous, pastas are entree sized and my entree consisted of three huge double cut lamb chops.  Desserts are decadent, with the Pistachio and Chocolate Semifreddo the best out of everything I tried.  They also have an interesting tasting Saffron Panna Cotta which I was not particularly keen on.  

Service was a totally different beast, it could have not been any further from decent for a restaurant of this caliber.  Between the gruff host, the apathetic bartender and our seemingly clueless and curt waiter - you'd think you were wasting their time by patronizing the restaurant.  The only saving grace - the polite and helpful gentlemen in a suit, who I presume was the manager.  He actually explained the menu to us and did a good part of our waiter's job (including replacing coffee that was brought out lukewarm) while she was off in neverland.  

My initial apprehension about the quality of the food proven to be unfounded.  This undoubtedly was one of the better meals of the trip.  Go for the fabulous food which overshadows their lackluster service.
Boyf and I had the pasta tasting menu bc we are pasta-nuts... We also had an 11 PM seating because I tried to reserve like the week before during the holidays. 

The thing is that we had ALREADY EATEN DINNER. Because Boyf's family was having dinner at home (at 7) and we politely agreed to eat with them also. So... This was some of the best pasta I've ever had in my entire life. The only minor problem I had was that the first dish of pasta came a little dried up from sitting under the lights for some reason. But each successive dish was better than the last one. How can they imbue each seemingly simple dish with so much flavor? And we had an incredibly delicious bottle of reasonably (for Manhattan anyway) priced wine (the Chaos). 

But... and this is hard for me to admit in a public forum like this... I was so full that I couldn't keep all the food down. I've never had this happen to me before and I never want it to happen again, it was gross and uncomfortable. I felt like one of those debauched Romans and their vomitoriums... Man, I was almost in the clear! I was more than half way through the menu, took one look at the waiter bearing down on the table with more food, and then made a mad dash to the bathroom to puke. 

My boyfriend had the foresight to ask them to pack up some of our extras... So the plus side of the experience is that I had an amazing breakfast of leftovers.
This is my favorite restaurant in Manhattan.  I have been dining here since it opened.  I could write a book, but I will keep it brief.  The food product is exemplary.  The pasta's are home-made and the preparation and accompanying sauces are superb.  The service is excellent and the atmosphere is very cool.  Upstairs is more calm and downstairs is high energy.  Request seating on either floor depending on your party and your mood.  Can't go wrong with either tasting menu.  My favorites:  Mint love-letters, pappardelle with bolognese, black spaghetti with rock shrimp.

Is it any wonder that this has booked out 30 days practically since it opened.  Babbo is a model for what every restaurant should be.
Missing on many levels, pretty sure Mario would not eat here. Starting, the service is very good. The bread seemed old and dry, nothing with it. Decent Cockles and Grilled Octopus, Arugula salad was a huge pile with cheese and balsamic, you could make this at home. Pasta was very disappointing, Black pasta under cooked and flavored fishy, we sent it back right away. The replacement Bolognese was pretty good, but you could get this from the frozen food isle. I didn't bother with the main course, but others thought it was ok. Desert and coffee was good. Very standard fair at a high price, best of the 80's music, service was great, kitchen was blah...
This is the best place for a special occasion.  My boyfriend and I have been here numerous times, but the next time always outdoes the last.

My boyfriend called to make a reservation 30 days beforehand for our five year anniversary. He called as soon as the phone lines opened at 10:30 a.m., but didn't get through until 11:30 a.m. because of the busy signal.  When he did, there was only a 10:45 and 11:15 reservation left. It was for a Friday night. First advice - book 30 days in advance if you want a particular date!

We got to Babbo a bit early for our reservation and they were running behind. I may have been a little more agitated if it weren't my favorite place. I didn't mind because I knew it was worth the wait. I also shook Joe Bastianich's hand (co-owner of Babbo with Mario Batali) when I spotted him (he was eating there that night), so that put me on cloud nine.

And boy, it was!

The waiter was extremely helpful and helped my boyfriend and I create our own tasting menu.  We divided three primi, two secondi, got our own desserts, and ordered a bottle of wine.

First we ordered our bottle of wine - the Vespa Bastianich 2009. I knew to order this because we took a wine class at Eataly with Joe Bastianich - I highly recommend it! It's a super white. Next we got our amuse bouche of crostini with chick peas and some sort of balsamic vinaigrette. 

Then we got our first pasta - the waiter changed the order of the pastas so that we didn't get full too quickly.  Then we got  a complimentary specialty dish of a pumpkin squash from the south of Italy along side our pastas. It's the special recipe of the month. It was really good! The first pasta that we got was the Linguine with Clams, Pancetta, and Hot Chili's. The pasta was divided on two plates for us, and it was a big serving for us both even though it was divided! The clams went so well with the saltiness of the pancetta, and the chilis gave the pasta that extra zing. This was going to be our favorite, we thought.

Then came the Beef Cheek Ravioli.  Now I know what everyone is talking about. It was like ....beef stew inside of a ravioli. I don't know another way to describe it, and I don't think that does it justice. It was friggin incredible. This was our favorite, we thought.

THEN came the Mint Love Letters, so beautifully plated with such vibrant colors. The moment you bite into them, it's this ridiculous taste of minty freshness, so fresh and SO delicious. I think this was my favorite. Not because it was the last thing that we ate I don't think, but I'm not sure. If you put another pasta in front of me, I may just change my mind again...

Then my boyfriend and I received our secondi, at the same time. I got the Spicy Two Minute Calamari, and my boyfriend got the Pork Chop.  The calamari was GREAT, I really enjoyed it, the broth was so well seasoned and the calamari itself was so delicious and tender. My boyfriend loved his porkchop, especially with the 12 year balsamic vinegar. He also really enjoyed the cherry peppers as well.

At this point, we were full, but the dinner was well paced. After 5 wonderful years with my boyfriend, we have become very good at sharing, but not when it comes to dessert, so we both ordered our own.

I ordered the pumpkin maple cheesecake - WOAH. So friggin good. Glad I had it all for myself, lol. My boyfriend ordered the chocolate and pistachio semifreddo ...I was a bit jealous of his ...so I ate his as well...

The waiter came back and said that we did not have enough dessert (at this point I'm thinking, "is this real life??????????"), so he brings us another complimentary order of dessert - the pear and pecorino crostata with honey and grappa zabaglione ...Jesus Christ. I mean grappa zabaglione ...these people are fucking genius!! That was delicious as well. This may be one of the perks of eating at Babbo late, they probably had some extra of the dessert and didn't want it to go to waste. At this point, it was approximately 1:30 a.m.

But it didn't stop there, they also brought us two complimentary glasses of Moscato (dessert wine). Talk about feeling like a VIP.

Then we got the classic finale of the amuse bouche cookies - amaretto, chocolate, and hazelnut (I believe?) biscotti.

The bill came to $260 with tip ...not too bad for all that incredible food, wine, and spectacular service for a special occasion.

I'll be thinking of the next reason to go to Babbo - when it's time to celebrate something special, Babbo is a no brainer.
So many other reviews, so I'll keep it as short & sweet as possible. Babbo was really good, but I don't think it's as ethereal as everyone says it is.

Had some complimentary chickpea bruschetta, compliments of the chef, to start the night. It was a nice, light start.

The Pig Foot Milanese was a pretty good-sized appetizer & pretty tasty. I'm Filipino, so a fried pork dish was right up my alley.

In terms of the pasta, we tried the Spaghettini & Beef Cheek Ravioli. I absolutely love perfectly cooked, fresh pasta, and Babbo delivered. However, I wasn't overly wowed by the flavors, though they were good. I think the spicy budding chives just weren't meshing w/ my palette & I thought the sauce was a bit too sweet for my liking. I liked the beef cheek ravioli much better, though I'm not sure I was in love w/ the crushed squab liver. 

We also ordered the brussels sprouts w/ pancetta, which was just a little too salty. 

The pumpkin maple cheesecake was excellent. I highly recommend it.

Our server, George, was phenomenal. He was very polite & extremely knowledgeable about the menu. I will not complain about the service here. 

An extra bonus -- we walked in around 8:15 and were seated immediately. Probably luck of the draw, but very good nonetheless.
I waited so long to visit Babbo because I assumed--perhaps correctly--that it is both overhyped and a tourist magnet.  Even so, Babbo is the bee's knees.

First, let's discuss the house Negroni and how perfect it was.  Equal parts "Brooklyn Gin," Campari and Carpano Antica.  So smooth, and only $11.  I opted for the 2-for-1 Negroni special and had two for the mere price of $22.  (BTW: "Brooklyn Gin" could actually refer to either Brooklyn Gin or Breuckelen Gin.  I didn't think to ask.)

Next, antipasti.  We ordered the tripe and the pig's foot.  Both were delicious, and generously portioned.

Pasta?  Absolutely.  Goose liver ravioli with balsamic vinegar and brown butter was delicious.  The sauce an acidic, slightly sweet counterpoint to the rich liver.  The meal's overall winner, though, was the Chianti-stained papardelle with wild boar ragu.  Oh lordy was that ragu good.

For my main, I had fennel-dusted sweetbreads.  Nice crust on 'em.  I don't remember much about the oxtail gnocchi that Jordan S had.

For dessert, we shared an assortment of gelati and sorbetti, which was really good.  Truth told, though, we probably should have skipped the sweet course.

The service was generous and anticipatory.  I feel bad that they have to put up with so many misbehaving tourists.  (Why, of course we'll take a picture of you posing with your magnum!)  Our sommelier was a really chipper woman who helped us find a good bottle for the right price.

The second floor is probably where you want to sit, unless you crave a real bustling restaurant experience.  When we sat down at 6:30, Christmas music was playing.  After about an hour, it switched to the wrongly-loathed rock soundtrack.  Anyone who hates on the music needs to smoke a jay.  It's good stuff.
Being the first time here, I figured I would take a shot w. the traditional tasting menu.  It was worth every penny as pricing was very fair @ $75 and along w. the $50 wine pairing, it was a great experience.  The 8 course tasting included the following:

Babbo culatello
Pappardelle w. Chanterelles and Thyme
Duck Tortelli w. "Sugo Finto"
Grilled Guinea Hen w. Pumpkin Fregula and Black Truffle Vinaigrette
Coach Farm's Goat Cheese w. Fennel Honey
Gelo  al Val di Non
Chestnut Palacinche
Assortment of Desserts (sweet potato spice cake .w lemon marscapone, pistachio and chocolate semifreddo, pear and pecorino crostata, and a cranberry tart w. vanilla gelato)

The culatello is a version of prosciutto that Babbo cures for 1.5 years and w. the spring onion, a touch of honey along w. pecorino romano, it was a great start.  

The pappardelle .w chanterelles and thyme tossed in a bit of butter was very clean and light.  However, I felt the flavors were a bit one tone and needed something extra.  

The duck tortelli was made from duck confit and a puree of duck gizzards.  For those who can't stand the gamey taste and along w. the shaving of pecorino romano, this might be your least favorite but it was a good dish.  The wine pairing of Dolcetto d'Alba from Brandini was divine as it mellowed out the gamey taste of this dish.

The grilled guinea hen was crisp and tender.  I was indifferent about the pumpkin fregola and the black truffle vinaigrette was good.  Again, the wine pairing of Castel del Monte Riserva from Rivera was very nice w. this dish.

Coach Farm's Goat cheese w. fennel honey was proabably my favorite of the night.  This was the most velvety goat cheese i have ever eaten and the spiciness of the fennel w. the sweetness of the honey worked great w. the goat cheese.  The wine pairing of Tocai Plus from the Bastianich winery was very, very good.

Gelo al Val di Non was an apple gelatin w. a streusel topping.  It was a deconstructed apple crumb pie in a shot glass.  Great taste but was not a fan of the wine pairing w. Fiano di Puglia as it was sweet complimenting sweet.

Chestnut Palacinche was the 7th course and it was interesting.  Like my sister said, the description by our waiter sent an overpromising expectation that the dessert did not meet.  9 layers each of thin crepe and ricotta w. semi-candied chestnuts.  A bit too much nutmeg in this dish for me and one of my least favorites of the night.

Lastly, with four of us at the table, they gave us an assortment of 4 desserts.  My least favorite was the cranberry torte not because it wasn't good, I'm just not a big fan of cranberries' tartness.  The sweet potato spice cake was good but the lemon marscapone was the star of that dish.  I really like the pistachio and chocolate semifreddo and my fave was the pear and pecorino crostata w. the honey grappa zabaione.

Service at first was a bit pretentious but warmed up later on.  It was a late night so I understand how he felt.  Overall, a wonderful treat and definitely will return to try the other star dishes Mario has to offer.  My actual rating should be 4.5 stars but Yelp does not provide 1/2 stars and I have not tried every restaurant in the world to warrant an establishment a 5 star rating!
Had to book this place a month in advance, and literally had to hit redial for a good 20 minutes before I could get through. When we got there, they actually were able to seat us 30 minutes early, so that made up for it since we had a late reservation. The sommellier is fantastic and will tell you everything you never wanted to know about massive list of wines. 

The octopus is really fantastic, as was the lamb. Surprisingly, the pastas were just ok. The beef cheek ravioli was good, but I tasted no truffle on it (which was half the reason I ordered it). The chianti stained parpardelle was again, good, but nothing special. Stick with the meats here.

Also, they really need to take not let the 17 year old bus boy hook his ipod up to the sound system... Greenday and Jay-Z are not really the kinda music you want at a place like this.
Just went to Babbo last night.

The reservation process is impossible and down right annoying. 3-4 week wait min, if you can even get through to someone on the phone.

We arrived and were promptly seated.

We ordered the grilled octopus appetizer 5/5, pappardelle pasta with boar ragu 5/5, something penne-like with mushroom and cream sauce 5/5, lamb chops 4/5, veal chop with black truffles 5/5.

Bottom line, one of the best meals we've ever had.

MUST GO!
I've been waiting 7 years (passively) to eat here and finally was able to get a late dinner last night.  Long story short, it was absolutely worth it!

The grilled octopus was excellent and perfectly seasoned.  We split the deconstructed osso bucco for two which was amazing but quite a lot of shank which is always a good thing.  The saffron orzo was cooked to perfection and the bone marrow was a great addition.

But..the best, by far, was the chianti stained pappardelle with the wil board ragu.  I would go back just to have that as the main course.  The pasta tasting menu is on my todo and will ba back for that.
Struggling whether to give this one or two stars, but ultimately at this price I think poor service and bad food are unforgivable.

While Mario Batali is something of a celebrity chef, he's known in the city and the industry as being a difficult guy to work with, especially as his focus is more on selling books / TV shows vs. serving good food. 

The whole point of Babbo is to give out-of-towners a taste of a "real" NYC restaurant. But service is at an all-time low, the food does not stand up to other restaurants, and the atmosphere is cramped and uncomfortable.

This place has taken a turn for the worse in recent years / months. This is a made-for-TV, rob-the-tourists, celebrity-chef-milking-his-fame type of place, and you are wasting your money here.
Two of us had the tasting menu with the 'better quality' wine parings.  Let's just say that the wine/food combos were 'spot on', 'I get it now', good.  I'm not a pasta kind of guy but the pappardelle with morels was my favorite of the group, and would go back just to have that.

When they brought us the first course, we didn't think there was going to be enough food.  However, to be perfectly honest we were full AND drunk when we were finished which leads me to this little tip ... 

With every course the first thing your waiter will do is explain the dish along with the wine paring as they're pouring the wine.  Taste the wine and drink most if not all of it BEFORE they bring you the food.  After they bring your food, the wine guy will come back for a re-pour.  You get more wine this way.  LOL.

Believe it or not I sent my dessert back - I truly hated it.  I don't remember what it was but it wasn't the chocolate one.  After the 'figs with truffle honey and local goat cheese' they brought my partner and me two different desserts for us to try.  I couldn't eat the one so they graciously took it back and brought me the same chocolate one my partner had.  This is totally out of character for me as I rarely ever send anything back to the kitchen, but the waiter totally understood and didn't blink an eye when I requested the switch.  We joked about it later on, and still laugh about it today.

Um, pretty expensive evening.  With drinks before dinner, the two of us had a $300 meal sans gratuity.  However, this was one of those meals we remember and talk about ... can't say that about all the places we go to.
Absolutely amazing Italian food.  Every single dish was insanely flavorful and delicious.  So in love with this place.  

We wanted to try the pasta tasting menu but all members of the party must order it and there were so many other things on the menu we wanted to try that we decided to do a la carte this time. The night started with complimentary chickpea bruschetta from the kitchen.  We ordered the Beet Tartare, Grilled Octopus with Lemon Vinagrette, Pumpkin Lune Ravioli, Spaghettini with Lobster, and the Porkchop. Every single dish was to die for.

Two people waited on us.  Our waitress/waiter were both very kind and attentive. At the end of our night, they gave us complimentary dessert of a trio of cookies and an extra pour of wine to "cleanse our palate."  Talk about fabulous service!
HOLY BABBO! where the hell have you been my whole life?!!!!!!

I can't find a decent pasta place in ATX *HINT*. Now that I've eaten here nothing will EVER live up to it. 

Hands down THE best meal I had in NYC. Get a reso, hell get 2 (I wish I did), because I'll be sad for you if you never know the joy of what Babbo brings to the table. This place did not disappoint. 

Rockin' the best of Red Hot Chilli Peppers with a room jam packed with happy diners, I knew this was the place for me. The vibe was super fun. After a long ass day in NYC at 10:30pm 2nd dinner was calling my name in this infectious restaurant.  

The night started with a complimentary chickpea bruschetta. It was a nice starchy start, though that was not what I came in for... 

I had a plan of attack of what to order and everything came out a winner.

A N T I P A S T I

Grilled Octopus: Think you hate octopus? this will change your mind. For reals. If not then something might be wrong with you and you might want to get that looked at. The octo was tender with charred tentacles of goodness. Sitting on a nice bed of spicy limoncello vinaigrette. This was truly a beautiful dish for sight, taste, & smell. I ordered this and literally had to fight my husband (who is a notorious mollusk hater) for the last bite. 

P R I M I

Black Spaghetti: sleeper dish! glad I tried it because I wouldn't have thought twice about it. The flavors were so perfectly matched, generous portions of calabrese salami crisped up. Tender pasta & perfectly salted.

Beef Cheek Ravioli: One of the best ravioli's I've ever had and I've only had about 3 that are memorable. I'm at a loss for words on this one, just get it. You'll thank me later.

S E C O N D I 

Duck with Five Lilies and Cherry Vinaigrette: Duck done right! 2 ways: confit & pan seared. Sitting on a bed of oniony goodness with figs hidden underneath. 

D O L C I     E     F O R M A G G I 

Chocolate Hazelnut Cake
Cake with grapes in it (can't remember the name it's not on the menu)
Both were amazing but the Chocolate Hazelnut came out ahead.

A L L A    F I N E

Next time I'm in town this will be my first stop.
Incredible. I was scared of the pasta tasting menu (5 pastas and 3 sweets), thinking it would be a 'never-ending pasta bowl ala olive garden' amount of food ... not so! totally manageable if you go in hungry. 

pasta's also one of those foods i dont order out much because we make it all the time at home ... but this goes beyond pasta. every bite is delicious!!!
This is my NY disclaimer. Being from TX, I was shell-shocked at the price of pretty much everything in NY. Unless the food was insanely cheap or insanely expensive, I didn't factor price into my review***

I SAID GODDAMN! Believe the hype. The food is so good I'm positive that Mario Batali sold his tiny ginger soul to the devil in order to cook like this. A complete knockout from start to finish.

Grilled octopus tentacles: Phenomenal appetizer, perfectly cooked, none of the chewiness you typically associate with octopus. It really was a revelation for a guy who HATES eating mollusks. An ah-ha moment if there ever was one...this is how octopus is supposed to taste. Had a slight braise to it, imparting a hint of southwest BBQ flavor.

Beef cheek ravioli: I ate this meal five days ago and I still think about it. It's like someone figured out how to wrap an orgasm in pasta and served it. Order this, even if you're vegan. Especially if you're vegan. It'll change your world perspective.

Black pasta: For such a simple dish, it held surprisingly complex flavors. Very little seasoning, lots of meat, lots of panchetta. Yummy.

Wifey ordered the duck, perfectly seasoned, perfectly crispy skin. 

Truly an eye-opener of a meal. Mario Batali, will you be my friend? I'll ignore your crocs and flowing ginger mane, just make the beef cheek ravioli for me again!

If you do nothing else in NY, eat here, or go to your grave with unfinished business.
Went here on 12/3/11 at 10:15pm because I made a reservation on 11/3/11 and 10:15pm was the earliest time they had left. I highly recommend calling 1 month in advance or else you would never get a reservation here.

When you first enter the restaurant, it was like a bodega. There was a huge, noisy crowd around the bar/host area and it was like moving through a crowded mosh just to go to the front desk and say you were here for the reservation.

Next, I met the host and he was EXTREMELY RUDE to both the customers and the employees there. I do even know why they would higher such a rude person. Not welcoming at all and he acted like he was annoyed by me and all I did was say I was here and my reservation was at 10:15pm.

We then had to wait about 15 minutes because they were running behind.

When we got to our table, the waiter was rushing us to put in our orders and then he ran off. The waiter was not very accommodating and he barely went to check up at our table and was not friendly. 

You would never think that you were at a former Michelin star restaurant because the service was horrible. It took them very long to refill the water, they did not fold our napkin when we left the table, all they did was gave us our food and then the check at the end.

Now on to the only good thing about the restaurant, the food:

Ordered the pasta tasting menu and this is way we got:

Complimentary chick pea brochette: ok, nothing special

Black Tagliatelle: Very good

Casunzei: Very good

Garganelli: Very good

Agnolotti pomodoro: Good

Pappardelle bolognese: Good

Freittele: Good

Chocolate diablo: ok, just taste like chocolate mousse with pepper

Olive oil cake and gelato: Very good

Overall: The food was very good but the service sucks. So if you are in it just for the good food and nothing else, this is the place to go but if you are in it for the whole "dining experience" then save your money and go somewhere else.
Top to bottom this place was outstanding.

This seems small, but while we waited for our table and had a drink at the bar, they never asked us for cash or to hold a credit card. They just handled it and knew to move our drinks to our bill. 

Everything we had was great especially the octopus app and especially the pasta.

Service was perfect. Why can't more place strive for this?
Cassinelli has the freshest pasta in Queens and in so many varieties they are sure to please everyone.  

I don't really like cheese ravioli, however, when I make it from Cassinelli's it tastes totally different.  Their pastas taste great as well.

The staff inside are friendly and prices are average.  

Forget Barilla, Cassinelli's is the real "choice of Italy."

Metered parking on the street.
Best ravioli EVER!

Fresh pastas made on site.   So good that other stores in the neighborhood sell Cassinelli's food! Their hours are a little weird, so stop by Othello's for your pasta fix.
Im surprised there aren't more reviews on here! Then again, the bulk of the clientele are older Italian women.

I don't know what I would do without Cassinelli's. Their meat ravioli is the best I've ever eaten, and so is the tortelloni. The meat inside is great, when I saw prosciutto was an ingredient, I fell in love.

On a side note, they sell Zanzibar (Italian chocolate with Hazelnuts) for a low price as well here. Another side note, its close to Sal, Kris and Charlie's.
Their fresh pasta is so reasonably priced and very good!  The owner or manager was nice enough to welcome me to the neighborhood by giving me a bag of pasta on top of my purchase! He was very good at instructing me on how long I can keep the pasta and how long to cook it to make it just right! The ravioli is so good that we don't buy the grocery store kind anymore!
It's a block away from my crib- a great, local establishment, making fresh pasta on the premises. I frequent their shop once a week to pick up their  fresh pasta items that are bagged in the front-The Tortellini and cheese ravioli are my favorites :) The texture and freshness of the pasta after you boil it, is so good that I can eat it alone without sauce. The place is cash only though and the hours are really random during the weekdays so I usually catch them Saturday morning/afternoon. The guy is also super friendly-I didn't have enough cash on me one time, and he told me to just take the item and pay him back later! I of course, couldn't do that and ended up going to CVS to get cash back, and then went back to the place to purchase the item lol.
This is a good place to go to get fresh pasta. That is all I have to say about that.
Great pasta and a great staff.  I'm excited for my mushroom tortellini!
The food was very well done and tasty.  I had the chicken rollatini and my date had the shrimp pasta.  Both dishes came out so pretty.  My chicken sat on top of a sausage bread pudding.  It was a delicious pairing.  I tasted my date's pasta and it was amazing.  We split the tiramisu for dessert.  It was very creamy.

The reason I gave Nino's 3 stars is because the service was horrible.  The restaurant was empty and it took them 15 minutes to hand us a menu.  The soda was flat.  We ordered coffee and they never served it to us but we were charged for it.  They were so slow, we sucked it up and paid for it because we were scared to be held prisoner any longer.  I used a groupon on our meal and it took them 20 minutes to figure out our check.  We were there way too long, it caused us to be very late for our next destination.  It is sad the service sucked.  If it was better they would be my new Italian restaurant.
Made reservations here using OpenTable because they also offer 30% off our entire bill INCLUDING alcohol! We waited a few minutes for the Host (Nino, who's also the owner) and our party of 7 were seated comfortably in front.

We ordered a few drinks: cosmo, henny shots, etc. Definitely recommend the cosmo! Delicious!

The service was slow: we had to wait for our server to order food, but we also had a server solely for ordering our drinks. We started off with baked oysters, my absolute favorite thing at the restaurant and some bread. They served us two different type and the one type we liked better wasn't being served anymore so we were stuck with hard, over baked bread. 

I had a seafood salad that was extremely bland, luckily there was a lemon that I squeezed all over the dish.

My main entree was the Pollo Martini, which was HIGHLY recommended by the server and I shared with my friend (who got hers about 5 minutes after mind even though we were having shared portions) was basically a parmesan crusted chicken in a sauce with two meager slices of carrots and green beans. Where's the starch? The chicken was okay, lacked seasoning.

Some of the girls weren't happy with their dishes either, nothing was outstanding or anything to rave about besides the baked oysters.

Dessert: chocolate and vanilla gelato was delicious! The banana bread was average.

Overall, nothing I nor the rest of the group were crazy about. Our bill was about $300 w/ tip, with the discount, still wasn't worth that much with the discount. Sorry Nino's I wanted to love your traditional flare, but the food just didn't wow me.

Three of us shared two appetizers, and each had an entree. Before tax and tip, and excluding beverages, our total bill came to about $115. The entrees we ordered averaged $35, but most menu items cost less than those. Dessert prices start at about $6.
Tomaso's dining room is simple but nice. The owner included his standard cherubs on the ceiling!
There is a bar that's not very separated from the dining room. TVs in upscale restaurants bug me.
This bar was not a 'meat market'. It seemed like just a few friends meeting for a happy hour snack.
A sign read that appetizers were half price until 7 p.m., but that only applies to the bar area. :-(
The bread at Tomaso's was a disappointment. Not warm, crust not crunchy.
I feel that places that serve olive oil for bread should have fresh ground pepper. None offered.
While we were there, a couple came in, sat down, looked at the menu and left. Sticker shock.
This place seems to attract more of a middle aged crowd. I guess that's who can afford it!
The entrees were excellent, and overshadowed those small negatives that were minor in comparison.
Our visit to Tomaso's was a pleasant one. We had visited Tomaso's original location in Phoenix years ago, but this was our first chance to visit the Chandler location.
My friends both liked the Fried Calamari appetizer better than I did. I found it a little over breaded, but at least it was tender and not chewy. Definitely a portion large enough for two to share. I enjoyed the Mediterranean Platter -- real anchovies! -- I enjoy the variety and the choices were light and very tasty. Again, large enough to share.
The entrees at Tomaso's were the highlight of the meal. The Lobster and Seafood Cioppino was wonderful, too huge to finish. The Scampi with Lobster Ravioli was different than typical scampi; it was more like a garlicky marsala sauce, and had mushrooms. Although I love traditional scampi, I'd go back for this entree again. The Osso Buco was also a hit, although my eating companion snagged some of my vegetables to go with it.
Here's a warning about Tomaso's web site: as of this writing it is incomplete (where's the dinner menu? where are the desserts?) and the prices are out of date. They are all higher now.
Tomaso's gets high ratings for their tiramisu--we tried a sample and it was excellent. We were just too full to order dessert!
If you check around (see link below for "Coupons and Discounts") you can sometimes find discounted certificates for Tomaso's.
We'll be going back to Tomaso's again, and we're looking forward to it.
The food is anti pasta,and italian food which is bad for your health.I have actually seen waterbugs in their kichen and seen some nasty stuff which goes on in the place.With the bar oh forget about it.There is a dish washer that doesn't even clean their dishes the proper way.The drinks also taste horrible in which they taste like water,instead of how they are supposed to taste like.They put too much ice in the drinks instead of you tasting the drinks content of alcohol they put way too much ice in their drinks.There are people in that place who are nasty to the customers.I would seriously be thinking about another italian place to eat at.
Earlier this week my wife and I celebrated our 19th wedding anniversary at RoSals Restaurant on Taylor Street. This ten table restaurant serves up some of the best Sicilian style cuisine in the neighborhood with a very extensive pasta list to choose from. Among the pastas are traditional dishes like Rigatoni Arrabbiata, Sweet Annolotti and Homemade Raviolis. The veal, fish, beef and chicken dishes are straight out of Sicily.
This restaurant was opened in 1990 by Salvatore and Rosanne Perry who lived in the Little Italy neighborhood for years before opening this nice little Italian restaurant. There is nothing better than a family owned restaurant.
When you first walk into the dining room it seems like your walking into some ones home. The restaurant has a very warm and inviting atmosphere with photos lining the walls. We had early reservations on an off night, like I normally like to eat because I figure nobody will be there, but the place was so full by 7:30 they had to open the upstairs dining room. Any restaurant in the city would kill for that kind of business.
We first ordered a bottle of Righetti Valpolicella 2004 to start off the evening. We drink much better when were out with the Wine Guys. For appetizers we ended up ordering the Stuffed Mushroom and the Stuffed Artichoke, needless to say we were stuffed before the entrees, but that didnt stop us.
When it came to the entres my wife broke my rule about ordering steak at an Italian restaurant but at least the sauted spinach that it came with was made Sicilian style. So anyway she ordered the Filet Mignon with cracked black pepper but instead got the steak covered with crushed red pepper flakes which was rather disappointing though the steak was very good.
I ordered the Veal Steppanjohnno which is similar to the Breaded Veal recipe I recently posted. Its an excellent dish that we enjoyed very much. There was a great flavor combination going on with the veal, vegetables, prosciutto and provolone that we enjoyed very much.
For dessert we had a Lemoncello Zabaglione that was so light and airy it complimented the dinner perfectly.
All in all, RoSals is a nice casual place with excellent Sicilian food. Bring the whole family to enjoy this little Italian restaurant in the heart of Little Italy.
Check out their menu at Rosals Italian Cucina located at 1154 West Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607. For much needed reservations call 312-243-2357.
I ended up at a dinner party this week at Biaggis Ristorante Italiano in Deer Park, Illinois. Chef and managing partner, Tony Marlotti, prepared some wonderful dishes to compliment the wines we tasted.
Biaggis Ristorante Italiano is a chain of around twenty gourmet Italian restaurants serving many traditional favorites plus special creations cooked up by the Executive Chef. When you first enter the restaurant the wide open dcor is warm and inviting. A large bar area separates the main dining area and a private dining area is separate from everyone else. This is where we had our dinner.
When we entered the private dining area a beautiful display table was set up by Biaggis beverage team that displayed all of the wines that were being served that evening. The event was hosted by The Shilling & Kramer, who imported the wines from the Piedmont region of Italy and Bacchus Wine Company, who distributes the wines here in Illinois.
Again I find myself surrounded by wine experts. Though Im not a novice. Ive been in this business long enough to have tasted some pretty great wines.
As far as the food was concerned, Chef Marlotti did a great job in creating some very unique dishes to pair with the wines that were being served. We were first served Insalata con Rucola, which was a light arugala salad with figs and nuts. A great start to a great evening.
The first wine that was served was De Faveri Colli Trevigiani Spago Prosecco. This wine was a nice light dry sparkling wine with a little nutty flavor to it and went very well with the Gamberi al Erbe, Fungi e Patate , which is herb crusted shrimp with caramelized mushrooms and roasted potatoes served in a shrimp stock. An excellent dish for this wine.
Next we tasted a bottle of Mauro Veglio Barbera dAlba 2005 which was full and robust in flavor with a bouquet of spices and fruit. This wine was served with Campanelle con Ceci e Cavolfiore which is flowered shaped pasta tossed with chickpeas and cauliflower in a zesty sauce. This dish turned out to be one of my favorites and went very well with the choice of wine.
The next dish was my absolute favorite. We were served Pollo e Melanzane Arrabiata which was a roasted chicken wrapped with eggplant with a sweet spicy tomato sauce. This excellent dish was paired with an excellent bottle of Mauro Veglio Dolceito 2005. Unfortunately we all agreed at the table the food and the wine was great separately but didnt pair up that well together.
The other entre was Agnello Arrostato al Tartufo which is a roasted lamb that was served with black truffles, cipolin onions and cavolo nero Italian black cabbage with a veal reduction. An excellent choice for the Mauro Veglio Casteletto Borolo 2001 that we tasted. Though the lamb could have been rarer for my taste, the dish was a great show of creativity.
To end the evening we were served Pesche Ripieni alla Piedmontese which is stuffed peaches with zabaglione. A light and simple dessert that truly complimented the entire menu.
Biaggis Ristorante Italiano is located at 20560 North Rand Road, Deer Park, Illinois 60010. For reservations phone 847-438-1850 or visit their website at www.biaggis.com.
What can I say about a Chicago landmark that has been in business for eighty years. The Italian Village Restaurants has been owned and operated by the Capitanini family since 1927 and has been successful ever since. Alfred Capitanini, who immigrated to this country, offered authentic Italian cuisine at a very good price.
Years ago I would go to the Village often and have always enjoyed the atmosphere and the food. Service is always top notch since a majority of the staff has been around for quite some time Im sure they have everything down to a science by now.
The Italian Village has three restaurants under one roof, The Village, La Cantina and Vivere and boasts the largest wine cellars in the Midwest. All three restaurants share a 45,000 bottle wine list, which sommelier Ron Balter maintains on a daily basis.
My wife and I decided on eating at The Village located on the second floor. Designed like a little Italian town, The Village is a very cozy and romantic place to dine.
We started with an order of Baked Clams Oreganata and an Italian antipasto which was excellent. Baked clams have always been my favorite since I was young.
For our entrees we ended up ordering the Rotolo di Polo which was chicken rolled with sausage, prosciutto and sage and served with fettuccini alfredo and my wifes all time favorite Pollo alla Vesuvio which is served with Vesuvius potatoes and loaded with herbs and garlic.
Needless to say both dishes were delicious but I especially enjoyed the Rotolo di Polo. The best Chicken Vesuvio we ever had was at La Fontanella on 24th and Oakley.
I dont drink as well as when Im with my wine guys, they usually bring something from their private collections to the table, but we did have a simple bottle of Lungaritti Pino Grigio which was fine with our meal.
To top off the evening we simply enjoyed coffee with Sambuca . This time we were just to full for dessert.
The Italian Village is the oldest Italian restaurant in Chicago and a great part of Italian-American history. They are located at 71 West Monroe. For reservations phone 312-332-7005 or visit their website at www.italianvillage-chicago.com
If you live in Chicago or are just visiting, there is no place in town you would rather be at than The Joynt. If you dont appreciate style and class then this is not the place for you. The Joynt is a luxurious four room nightclub that features some of the best live music, cocktails and ambiance this city has to offer and thats just in one room. Depending on your mood you may choose to relax in the The Lounge or dance the night away in the downstairs Retro Club.
The Joynt opened in the trendy River North section of Chicago in April of 2008 and continues to attract a certain clientele who enjoy great music and a type of atmosphere youll only find in a Micky Spillane novel. Its a type of place where gentlemen are gentlemen and ladies are ladies. There are not many places left in the city where people actually dress up before going out on a night on the town but the The Joynt is definitely that kind place.
The main attraction is not necessarily the music or the atmosphere but the owners and the staff. From the time you enter the door until the time you leave you are treated as if youre a long lost friend or famiglia, like us Italians like to say. Whether youre worth a million dollars or one hundred dollars youll be welcomed like youve been going there for years.
Stan Wozniak is the man behind the concept. Ive worked for Stan for years at Biggs Restaurant, Jillys and Rizzos. If there is anything I learned from him is that everyone is treated like a V.I.P.. Stan makes sure his staff knows that from the very beginning.
That is why I know when you walk into The Joynt youll be greeted by a friendly staff, entertained by only the best musicians and mingle with some of the nicest people youll ever want to meet.
So if you into sophistication, a relaxed atmosphere, great music, dancing and top shelf drinks, then The Joynt is the place for you. Ive been known to drop by on occasion. Im the guy with the glass of Dewers on the rocks.
The Joynt is located at 650 North Dearborn Street on the corner or Erie and Dearborn. For advanced reservations for a table: Phone 1-312-573-2233.
THE best-laid plans and all that. We were heading up to Crookes by car for a pizza when we got caught in the recent flash floods and ended up parking in Sheffield city centre and seeking out somewhere nearby.
My other half used to go to BB's Italian restaurant on office dos with his former workmates and enjoyed himself, so we thought we'd try our luck.
Leaving our dripping umbrella with a rapidly-growing group of its friends at the door, we inquired after a table for two and were in luck.
The very friendly woman who was front of house wasn't checking her list as an affectation  it was only early evening and the place was already buzzing.
BB's, which must be the narrowest restaurant in Sheffield, is affectionately known as the Tardis by some regulars. It goes back a long way and packs in a surprising amount of tables without being claustrophobic. Upstairs there's room for larger parties to gather.
The place is decorated like many an Italian restaurant here and in the mother country  rough Artexed walls are covered in pictures of home, old travel and film posters, caricatures and a big cartoon of the Italian football team. Further evidence of BB's love for the football team  the only beer on sale is called Forza Azzurri and the staff's smart black polo shirts boast their 2006 World Cup win in gold lettering.
This is a place that attracts a mixture of families, students and the aforementioned office groups or parties of friends celebrating birthdays. They also get pre-theatre and City Hall audiences.
The restaurant has been run by the Frusciante family for about 10 years. Wife Jill is front of house and husband Antonio is in the kitchen and two of their daughters work as waitresses. The third now has her own place in Burton on Trent.
Jill told me that the family have been involved in running a long list of Italian restaurants since 1980, including La Taverna on Birley Lane, the Flying Pizza on Glossop Road, San Lorenzo on Sharrowvale Road and Pizza Torino on West Street.
The prices look a bit steep at first  lots of starters are around the 6 mark and the main courses can go up to about 14-16.
However, a bit of astute menu-searching can find some bargains: you could share a starter as portions are generous and order a pizza or pasta dish and cut the main course bill in half that way.
Also, you can bring your own wine and, if a group asks in advance, the restaurant is more than happy to provide a set menu for 15.
There is a good wine list and, as Andy was driving, I tried a large glass of house red Montepulciano at 2.95, which was fine. He had a bottle of beer at 2.50.
After our friendly and knowledgeable waitress Carla had confidently gone through descriptions of the blackboard specials, I ordered the risotto (6.50), followed by tuna (14.50).
Andy stuck to the menu and had cheese garlic bread (5) followed by a Napoli pizza (6.95), which has his favourite anchovies on.
There's plenty of choice with a large menu plus three starters and three mains on the specials board.
The deal was to split the starters and our waitress, realising this, thoughtfully brought us two side plates.
The risotto was a fantastic red colour, made with a red pepper sauce and red pepper pesto, and came decorated with black olives, tomato slices and rocket.
It was as good as any I've eaten, perfectly cooked and full of flavour. It also went very well with the lovely, fresh-based pizza-style bread.
When a waiter offered us some black pepper my heart sank in anticipation of him grinningly wielding one of those giant phallic pepper grinders. But BB's has gone for something far more modern, one of those battery-operated affairs.
The attention to detail is impressive, especially on such a busy night. We didn't have to prompt for any part of our order and when I dropped a fork a replacement was at hand in seconds.
Our main courses continued the good impression.
Andy's pizza was very tasty and the base was as fresh as the garlic bread had been. They must have a proper pizza oven somewhere. I never saw where the kitchen was.
My tuna had been well cooked in olive oil and was smothered in a good tomato sauce dotted with capers and black olives. It came with a side dish of sauteed potatoes with rosemary, garden peas and carrots. They looked like they had been kept hot under a fierce heat but tasted fine.
After a bit of a rest we couldn't resist the puddings, once we'd worked out what c/c referred to on the desserts blackboard  cheesecake.
We were offered one of those terrible menu cards with pre-made desserts on but ordered homemade tiramisu for me and triple chocolate cheesecake for Andy. I also had a very good espresso.
The tiramisu was fine but there was a lot of it and for me it could have done with a good shot of booze in it to lift it. The cheesecake was fabulous but incredibly rich and it defeated Andy. He finished his lovely vanilla ice cream that came on the side, though.
Our bill came to 48.95 including drinks and coffee.
Verdict: Well worth stepping inside this Tardis
MUCH has been said about the marble, mahogany and millions of dollars poured into Del Posto, but the risk that Mario Batali and Joseph Bastianich have taken with this grand Italian restaurant is best measured in the gutsy way they have defied what their fans expect.
They have crumpled up page after page of the script that made their previous ventures so beloved and written a new libretto, emphasizing refined notes over rustic ones, sacrificing hip on the altar of elegant. Spacious and tranquil, with a piano player in place of a rock soundtrack, Del Posto is the anti-Babbo, the un-Lupa.
And that's not the whole of it. Teaming for the first time with Mr. Bastianich's mother, Lidia, whose restaurant Felidia is a more relevant point of reference, the two men have challenged New Yorkers to accept Italian cuisine presented with fastidious rituals and opulent trappings usually reserved for French fare.
Their reward? I hear a lot of grousing that Del Posto feels soulless and spurious, that it's the culinary equivalent of an epic Hollywood folly: Dishtar. The naysaying makes me wonder whether many New Yorkers are as open to new experiences as they like to think. Del Posto dares to speak in an unfamiliar idiom, only to be told it has a phony accent. That's a parochial response, and a largely unjust one.
Del Posto, which means "of the place," has ample ethnic grounding in Italy's fancier restaurants. It also has something more important: mostly terrific food, distinguished by first-rate ingredients (the arugula here makes arugula at many other restaurants seem like iceberg in drag), clear flavors and, more often than not, superior cooking.
Ignore the traffic jam of service carts and the purse stools (and, beyond Del Posto's doors, the loud, ugly battle between the restaurant and its new landlord). Focus instead on what lands on the tables.
It can be inventive and delicate: a cauliflower sformato, which is a puck of ethereal custard, rising above a salad of grapefruit and skate. Or simultaneously luxurious and earthy: ravioli that are filled with a chestnut and Parmesan pure and paired with pigeon and myrtle.
It can be fiery and populist: spaghetti with crab, jalapeo and toasted breadcrumbs, the kind of go-for-broke flourish Mr. Batali indulges less often here than at Babbo. Or more obscure and regal: a purplish risotto with Barolo and Castelmagno cheese, which combines cow's, goat's and sheep's milk, atop a bright orange carrot pure.
Move on to main courses and you find an unusually indulgent array of fish and meat. Not only striped bass and cod but also grilled turbot, orata steamed in parchment and Arctic char baked in salt.
Not only duck and squab but also roasted guinea hen, the skin over the breast golden and crisp, the flesh from the leg mixed with risotto and served in a hollowed baby pumpkin. There's veal rack, veal shank, lamb kidneys, leg of lamb.
In fact there's a bit too much. At a restaurant this self-regarding and pricey  the veal rack, for two, is $95  you pay in part to submit to expert judgment and you want more guidance. You don't want to hear a server say unbidden that the menu can be overwhelming, a concession that should clue the restaurant into the need for more scrupulous editing.
Such editing would improve the ratio of outstanding dishes to less successful ones. The veal shank, roasted and served with spaetzle, was dull and slightly dry, as was swordfish. Pappardelle with wild boar needed more kick, maybe because this particular pairing of noodle and beast has become so widespread.
Of the three savory chapters of the menu, which cover antipasti, pasta (and risotto) dishes and the main courses, the most consistently impressive is the second one. I was delighted to find bucatini alla gricia, noodles mixed with guanciale, red onions and an emulsification of rendered guanciale fat and pecorino.
Mr. Batali's love of offal finds expression in pici, a sort of fat Tuscan spaghetti, with coxcombs, chicken livers, duck testicles and, for conventional decadence, black truffles. Less predictably, agnolotti of veal, pancetta, chicken, mortadella and Parmesan are served slightly crunchy and unsauced, to be plucked and eaten with your fingers.
The ceremony surrounding main courses can indeed be fussy, with glistening slabs of flesh exhibited in their cooking vessels for adoration before being taken away and plated. The meats in the bollito misto, which include pork-stuffed pig's trotter, arrive in a cart and are hoisted from the water and carved tableside.
But one of the ways Del Posto stays faithful to Italy is the straightforwardness of most of the preparations themselves. Mr. Batali, Ms. Bastianich and the executive chef, Mark Ladner, tend not to go off on precious, rococo tangents.
The grilled turbot is gussied up with little more than a last-second application of olive oil. The potent appeal of a mixed grill with pork loin, a lamb chop, quail and a goose sausage hinges on the kitchen's care with these elements, not on a flurry of embellishments.
Like the guinea hen, the veal shank and four risotto dishes, the turbot comes in a serving for two. Like the char, the veal rack and the leg of lamb, the mixed grill is for four. In a disconcerting and sometimes disappointing fashion, dining at Del Posto can demand more than a generous budget and several hours. It can require a quorum.
Some adjustments should be made, to both the food and the ambience. Del Posto needs more blockbuster desserts, the best of which are a cranberry and apple strudel (yet again, for two), an apricot cassata that's like an Italian baked Alaska, and mustard-colored zabaglione, studded with green bits of pistachio-flavored amaretti.
Ms. Bastianich can be seen and heard whisking the zabaglione in a copper pot, and the incessant clanging, coupled with the tinkling of the piano, quickly teeters into parody.
But the central vision and ambition of Del Posto are valid ones. Why shouldn't an Italian meal be bracketed by a breadbasket as bountiful as Del Posto's and a plethora of complimentary cookies? Can there be much complaint with the extensive Italian wine list, which has a laudable number of bottles of white for under $50 and red for under $80?
Valet parking may seem molto suburban, but I suppose it's a welcome convenience for diners with cars. And while the vastness of the space, a whopping 24,000 square feet over several levels, brings to mind a hotel lobby, it's one swanky lobby. It also affords real room to maneuver between tables, enough quiet to facilitate conversation and a lounge area in which you can wait for your table in cushioned comfort or graze on modestly portioned dishes from a separate menu.
No doubt about it: this isn't the Babbo or the Lupa way. But why shouldn't Mr. Batali and Mr. Bastianich try a different path? And why bristle at the pageantry, so long as the pleasure is intact?
Toto is in Cherng Talay, near Bangtao Beach in Tinlay Place to be precise.
Head towards Laguna Complex, take a left at the two-way fork at the traffic lights and youll see a cluster of restaurants on the right. Toto is in amongst them.
With what can only be described as rustic, deep-pink walls Toto is making a statement.
Brick arches, tiled floors, subdued lighting, a reproduction of Manets A Bar at the Folies-Bergre and chunky wooden tables with red tablecloths and white napkins all add up to a classic theme.
A lighter-coloured, alfresco and open-sided dining section lies across the road near the car park.
With the restaurant being a Chianti-bottles throw away from the Laguna you can be sure to hear a plethora of languages at Toto and the international mix is complete with 100% long-term Thai staff members.
On the evening we went a Russian contingent was in, their guttural soon replaced by the rounded vowels of a group of Sydneysiders. By early evening the place is in full swing and the orders fly fast.
Toto boasts a 106-label international wine list heavily featuring Italian wine-growing regions but also with French, New Zealand, Chilean and Argentinean choices.
Prices range from 990 baht Chilean Mont Gras to a 33,000 baht 1996 Tenuta San Guido, a Tuscan super wine so whether youre brewstered or broke therell be something for you.
Totos ambitiously long menu covers all the Italian culinary bases and all the old favourites are here: pizzas, pastas, antipastos, salads, desserts and a mixed cheese plate are all confidently handled and well presented.
This is not fine dining as such but it is certainly the genuine article with homemade desserts and pastas, imported meats as well as a good variety of soups and spaghetti-and-pasta sauces.
Spaghetti carbonara is perfectly al dente, as is the pesto ravioli. Sea bass in salt crust with vegetable cartoccio is wholesome and a good choice, while the pizza prosciutto di Parma a real filler.
As mentioned, most of the staff members at Toto have been working there for quite a while and as a result the place has a quietly professional air to it.
The food here is straightforward with artful presentation that pleases the palate and the eye. Signature bresaola tortellini ricotta bursts with freshness and is a light starter that leaves room for the next courses. Caprese salad features very fresh mozzarella burrata that makes the tomatoes seem rather ordinary by comparison. Risotto all'aragosta e spinaci features a generously sized tail of small succulent lobster on a bed of tomato-based risotto full of nuanced flavours. Spaghetti alla boscaiola, featuring porcini mushrooms, asparagus and pork sausage, is hearty without being heavy. Australian black angus beef tenderloin controfiletto di manzo comes perfectly grilled to order, an alternative to the super-rich wagyu version at less than half the price.
For contemporary authentic Italian cuisine in a modern setting that's casual yet sophisticated. Efficient, attractive waiting staff in street clothes gives an air of hip professionalism at this spacious venue.
Antonio's signature home-made ravioli should not be missed; the porcini mushroom filling is fabulous and the truffle sauce is rich, but not heavy. Al dente white asparagus in parma ham with cream of gorgonzola sauce risks being too salty, but is perfectly seasoned, with the ham adding bite and the sauce gently supporting it. Lamb shank with penne is an osso buco-style dish with a red sauce that manages to be simultaneously light and hearty. Pork cordon bleu comes on the bone ensuring a juicy experience rounded out with a light mustard sauce. Tiramisu can be boring, but Antonio's version certainly is not. The sweetness of the pastry in chocolate souffle could be toned down to let the dark chocolate take centre stage, but this is a very minor quibble. 26
Antonio Armenio delights in sharing the joys of the Italian family kitchen he grew up in. The emphasis is on great flavours, not overwrought presentation. The venue is hip but cosy with low lights and Italian tunes . A well-trained staff takes pride in its work.
This is fine, traditional Italian cuisine with a very extensive menu. Start with grilled tomino cheese with grilled vegetables or lobster salad with avocado and tomato. Both are delightfully cooked and presented. Ravioli with truffle cream and porcini mushrooms is a classic not to be missed. Pizza diabla, flambeed at your table, is fiery and appetising with spicy salami, bell peppers and hot chilli. For the main course, the restaurant's lamb chops are beautifully cooked and tender; and fusilli with mushrooms and gorgonzola sauce is rich and not too heavy. For dessert, raspberry millefeuille must be one of the best in town with crispy pastry and a delicous contrast between sour fruit and sweet cream. 35/
For a friendly outing on any occasion, this large, airy restaurant in a leafy, residential area of Sukhumvit will not disappoint. There is a separate bar with a smoking section, a garden and private rooms upstairs.
As this is a pizzeria, the menu contains more than 50 pizzas, all baked in a kind of ovenin- the-round at the main dining area's centre, the wood-fired oven burning eucalyptus. A number of antipasti selections are available, among them carpaccio salmon with capers and black olives. One dozen soups and salads round out the starters. Pastas come in baked and special varieties and include choices such as alla puttanesca, canelloni with ricotta cheese and spinach and tortelloni stuffed with meat in a speck and gorgonzola sauce, the latter especially gratifying with its rich cheese and smoky-salty Tyrolean bacon. Risotti are on the menu, and if none of the five varieties happens to interest then diners are encouraged to suggest a preferred preparation. This special ordering possibility holds true for other menu items including meat and fish main courses; the emphasis is on accommodating the diner rather than imposing a cuisine concept. Portions are large. End with a delicious Italian ice cream.
Managing director Sergio Forte, from Rimini on the Adriatic, has borrowed a building design often seen in his home region whereby copious glass allows diners to feel almost out of doors. Actual outdoor seating is available as is a semi-enclosed area where smoking is permitted.
Good food, created with a nice variety of ingredients, and offered in an easy-to-eat style, including a modest but interesting buffet of salad, eggplant with cheese and other treats. The one-time-only access to the salad buffet also includes a one-layer or two-layer limit, so each piece of food must be placed on your plate as if it were measured sediment, because any overlapping titbits will be noted. For the main meal, vegetarian spaghetti is a pasta of mushrooms, garlic, tomatoes and green peppers. Salmon pizza drapes smoked salmon slices alongside rocket salad and melted feta cheese on a thin, delicious pizza. Roast beef in carpaccio, veal-breaded cutlets, and mixed seafood provide substantial alternatives to pasta. But pizza is the magic word here, blending recipes which mix and match mozzarella, anchovies, tomatoes, mushrooms, spinach, salmon and others. The fun but functional menu provides tiramisu, ice cream and other desserts.
Small, funky and intimate, this is a place for a casual break to enjoy some fast Italian food while cruising Sukhumvit Road. Santanastyle music ricochets off walls adorned by small photographs and memorabilia, which bestow a neighborhood friendliness to the room.
Bridge offers Italian cuisine and a fairly compact menu presents a range of appetisers, salads, soups, pastas, risottos and entrees. there is also a selection of beef, including Wagyu and Black Angus, lamb and seafood from the grill. Start with beef carpaccio, made from bresaola and wrapped around mixed salad and served with fontina cheese, gorgonzola and porcini mushrooms. grilled portobello mushroom and spinach is an interesting combination while ravioli trio features pasta with three fillings: mushroom, lobster and goose liver, served in a light truffle sauce. Signature beef tenderloin millefoglie is a generous serving of tender meat wrapped with parma ham and accompanied by a red wine sauce. For dessert, green tea mousse is an unusual option. Tiramisu is enjoyable, while fruit salad with raspberry sorbet is a deinite winner.
A stunning, geometric glass structure houses this modern and elegant eatery. the club-style ambience looks to attract a trendy crowd.
The Poor Italian is a restaurant on East 1st Avenue with executive chef Gianni Picchi that showcases fresh handmade pastas, meat dishes including sausages and hams that are cured in-house, seasonal vegetables and other local ingredients.
Visited as a party of six (three couples). We had a reservation and it was honoured promptly and without incident. The table was of an appropriate size for the group, the table setting was handsome and the seating was comfortable.
The waiter was reasonably attentive with drink orders but it did take a little while to get our food order in.
Aaand the food. Stunningly horrible, we couldn't actually believe how bad it was. Only one person of the six enjoyed their entree - the lasagna. All 5 other diners in the party had terrible dishes.
I ordered some sort of spinach fettucini type pasta darkened with... something like squid ink, to make it very dark green (looked kind of ominous but I did sign up for it, so no foul there). It had perhaps trace elements, a few spare molecules maybe, of crab (or whatever seafood was paired with it) but nothing larger than 2 mm x 5mm shred of meat. As if that wasn't bad enough, someone decided to squeeze 18 lemons worth of sour disgustingness onto it. It was basically inedible.
My partner and a few others ordered various other pasta pairings with seafood. None had anything other than token shreds of what may have been seafood, and most had other wildly inappropriate flavour pairings that served to ruin the dish.
All in all, great initial service, okay-to-good-ish continuing service, but the absolute worst food I had in 2011. I'm not kidding. This is the WORST food I had all year. And for the privilege, it's also quite expensive, so there's that. Please save yourself the trouble and skip the Poor Italian.
Been wanting to try this place every single time we drive by. Finally took my husband and family there to celebrate his birthday. Decor looks nice inside & out - a good surprise given its location. The waiter seemed friendly enough, but ended up ignoring us for the duration of the meal - took him forever to bring us food and divide up the birthday cake at the end. It didn't feel like other warm friendly Italian restaurant that we're used to going to. One thing good was that the appetizers were delicious - we tried both the bruschetta and the spotted prawns, but the entrees were pretty disappointing - homemade pasta that had a weird after taste and got cold and mushy fast. My in-laws had that evening's seafood special which they said was alright. Overall I thought the meal, service, and value wasn't that great - it left me wishing for so much more. =(
This evening our manager took us for an 'appreciation dinner' to show her appreciation of our work over the past year. She asked for suggestions and I mentioned Poor Italian, as I know she's a fan of Italian cuisine as is another of my coworkers and it's not too far from our workplace. I had been to this restaurant on two prior occasions. The first time, a few years ago, it was a group dinner and I had ordered a seafood linguine, which wasn't seasoned at all (though the linguine were cooked properly) and had little flavor. The only thing I really enjoyed was the warm bread which was really tasty, with plenty of olive oil in the focaccia. I thought this was maybe an off night for the chef and that he just forgot to season my dish. It can happen. The others in my group seemed satisfied with their fare. Service was OK.
I tried this place again when I took my father out for dinner, last year, as he likes Italian too. My dad had a pretty average looking carbonara (not really a rocket science dish which is easy to prepare) and I ordered a salad for myself which was quite mediocre. Service not so stellar and rather inattentive (ie we were left sitting there with dirty plates)
This evening was my third visit, as my manager and coworkers were game to try this restaurant. We had reservations for 5 pm. Given that it was a Tuesday night, I was surprised at the bad table we were given. It was right at one of the entrance points to the service area (kitchen) so I spent the entire time with a view of the kitchen. It was also chilly and drafty. Not sure why they stuck our small group of 5 there when there were other places to put us and the place did not fill up by the time we left at 7:30.
This is not a good place to dine for someone who has dietary restrictions ie if you do not eat meat, seafood and dairy, there is very little to choose from. Even a dish that could be prepared without meat ingredients such as the daily soup special of asparagus broccoli soup, was made with chicken stock and cream. I cautiously settled on gnocchi in a tomato sauce, as my only alternative choice, mushroom risotto, was made with (yep, you guessed it) meat based stock. I say cautiously because gnocchi are a tricky dish to make. I know good gnocchi .
I was served an enormous plate resembling a flying saucer, which had a hollow filled with a rather small mound of gnocchi (having skipped lunch, in prep for our dinner, I was disappointed at the small portion). Presentation was nonexistent - it was your basic piled up gnocchi with smears of tomato sauce; if it was supposed to have something green as a contrasting garnish (ie parsley or basil), I didn't see any sign of it.
Another of our party also opted for the gnocchi. I tried my first one and found it undercooked. The first few millimeters were cooked and the interior was like raw mushy gnocchi dough. I thought, hmm, maybe it's just one that didn't quite cook long enough. So I tried 4 more, all had the same nasty raw doughy texture. The sauce was very bland, underseasoned and nothing to rave about. Bland was the overall impression, other than the unpleasant texture of the undercooked gnocchi. The other diner who had ordered them found them to be the same, mushy. Neither of us was thrilled with our choice and gave up eating it. When the staff was alerted, a rather menacing large man came over - I don't know who he was, he didn't identify himself to me so not sure if he was the general manager. He loomed over me and attempted to lecture me on what gnocchi are supposed to be like.
Maybe he gets away with this attempt to intimidate and 'persuade' diners who are not happy with their gnocchi when the diners are not very familiar with this particular pasta type. I happen to have eaten heavenly gnocchi at home all my life. I wouldn't expect restaurant gnocchi to match up to my mamma's (exept perhaps in a truly top restaurant with a stellar chef) but I would expect them to be cooked, at the very least. These were not and a few minutes went by while the large man tried to persuade me these gummy, raw disasters were supposed to be that way. At length, seeing we were not willing to choke down the raw gnocchi, they were taken away and we were asked whether we wanted more gnocchi (a tactless suggestion). My friend opted for the lasagna and I asked whether they could make me spaghetti aglio olio. I figured they couldn't mess that up as it's one of the simplest of pasta dishes.
My friend's lasagna was to her satisfaction but from the moment I saw the plate of spaghetti, I knew by their appearance that I wasn't going to be able to eat my second choice of entree either. One of my group had ordered a seafood linguine and I could see it was made from fresh linguine. She was satisfied with her food. My spaghetti was obviously made from dry pasta, which was fine with me, but it wasn't fine with me that it was barely cooked. I was reminded of a Saturday Night Live sketch with Father Guido Sarducci cooking spaghetti for his dog. He took a strand of spaghetti out of the pot to ask the dog to test it to see whether it "was-a ready" and the thing had barely bent slightly from its immersion in the boiling water. My spaghetti was not 'a-ready' either. I could tell (and so could the person seated next to me) from its appearance that it was barely cooked, it still had the translucency of dry pasta. On an 'al dente' scale of 1 - 10, with say 4 being a normal al dente state, these were about an 8 or 9. They were getting stuck between my teeth like supersized hard dental floss.
Besides the undercooked state of the spaghetti, whichever of the chefs prepared this disaster didn't put a whole lot into this dish, which, when prepared properly, doesn't sit atop a pool of oil and is garnished with fresh parsley. Just as I know good gnocchi, I know good spaghetti aglio olio. This was not the good kind. I gave up eating it and was managing to at least have some good laughs with my pals over my non-dining experience. The only thing I filled up on somewhat was a couple of small olives, put out on the table along with the bread. Here again, disappointment...I had looked forward to the bread, remembering my first visit and how we had all loved the warm focaccia and lovely variety of breads served while we waited for our food. This time the breads were cold, the focaccia crumbly and the baguette-like bread was hard and chewy. This was basically what I got to eat at Poor Italian so maybe it is well named after all, as I had a real poor man's meal tonight! Bread dunked in olive oil and balsamic vinegar.
Of the other entrees ordered by my group, the seafood linguine, the lasagna and seafood risotto passed muster with them. My friend who opted for a ravioli dish reported that parts of the ravioli were undercooked. There seems to be a theme developing here...undercooked (maybe the chef on the pasta station needs some remedial classes). He didn't sound too over the moon about his entree and I think he enjoyed his bruschetta appetizer more than the main. Three of my party tried desserts and the double espresso creme brule was deemed delicious as was the Millefoglie. The presentation of the desert plates made up for the lack of presentation on the entrees.
Service was attentive and the waitress told me 'we will pay for the spaghetti', so presumably they did a post-mortem in the kitchen after the busboy asked me whether I wanted the uneaten (and inedible) spaghetti wrapped up and I told him no, it was undercooked and inedible. I was glad as my boss was picking up the tab and would have felt bad if she paid for that inedible mess.
This place could be good if only it were consistent and the kitchen not staffed with hit & miss chefs. I won't be returning here or recommending this place to anyone. After this third strike, they're out.
Lord knows good ol East Van has been in dire need of a good Italian resteraunt for years. Seems strange that, though the area is still home to thousands of folks of Italian heritage, its tough to find decent Italian food here. The Poor Italian might remedy this situation. But my single dining experience there left me feeling much lighter in the wallet but not overly impressed with any facet of the evening. The prices are definitely West Side and the portions a little skimpy. My Linguine Vangole was tasty but skimpy for $17. My friends prawn and scallop dish was a decent size but was closer to $30, if I recall correctly.The shellfish was cooked simply and perfectly. Our shared caesar salad was too small however tasty. The room is a little cramped affecting the ambience. However, they've done a good job with what they have to work with. It wasnt long ago that the space was occupied by a shabby breakfast joint. Dinner for two with a half litre of house red swill came to $100, tip incl. Not crazy... but if I'm dropping that kind of cash I want exemplary food, service and ambience. We got satisfactory and I'm not rushing back, Tony
A date night tonight, and we chose The Poor Italian.
We made reservations, we like to dine early so we made reservations for 5:30pm. Althought quiet then, by 6pm, it was packed. So I suggest reservatons.
We had a lovely relaxed evening. The service was excellent. Very attentive.
We started with the Antipasto, wow it was so much food, with fresh smoked Salmon, olives, beans, eggplant etc, all you can wish for in an Antipasto.
I had the Rack of Lamb, which came with roasted veg. I must admit the veg left a bit to be desired, but the lamb was amazing, a very good serving, full of flavour. I just loved it. One of the best things I have eaten in while.
SL had one of the specials, basically spagetti and meatballs, but that name does not do it justice. The sauce had such depth, the meatballs, had a hint of heat that played off the sauce. She loved it!
We decided to have dessert too, I had the Dark Chocolate Terrine, which was a chocolate lovers delight.
SL had the Tiramisu, and it was so light and fluffy, she said it melted in your mouth.
This place was packed, so I do suggest a reservation, but I could see the wait staff working so hard to seat everyone, and judge when people will move on.
Although a bit pricey for my normal dining, we would go back in a heart beat.
After hearing the buzz about this new restaurant, we decided to check it out on Friday night. We had a reservation and were promptly seated although it took about 10 minutes for a waiter to come over and greet us. After that little blip however, the service was very attentive.
The room is nice with a old world feel although its a little cramped with not enough separation between tables. To start, we had the antipasto platter which comes with a wide variety of meats cured in-house, cheeses, fish, eggplant, artichokes, and olives. Its a large and tasty plate of food for just over $13. I had the rack of lamb which came with a half a rack and a variety of veggies and potatoes. The rack wasn't trimmed like I would have expected but it was still good.
Overall the food was very good and a great value. The prices are very reasonable but it is in East Vancouver so maybe they are adjusted accordingly. I would definitely return when I am in the mood for a well priced, classic Italian meal.
THESE days there seem to be so many restaurants which are all style over substance.
They may have glossy interiors  all stripped wooden floors, shining glass table tops, stark white walls adorned with contemporary works of art  but the food and service are sadly lacking in quality.
Not so at Italian Way in Canton, Cardiff.
This fabulous little bistro-style Italian restaurant may have decor which is a little dated but therein lies its charm.
Step through the doors off the busy Cowbridge Road East and you are instantly transported to an eaterie on the Med.
The cosy and quaint restaurant is decorated in warm shades and plastic table cloths are spread across the tables. There are also pictures gracing the walls  the kind you might find in an Italian grandmothers house  and other knick-knacks.
But while it may sound a little tacky, and I wouldnt want to clutter my own house in that way, somehow it works here.
We visited the restaurant on a Monday night and, while it may not be the most popular night of the week to venture out, it was pretty full  perhaps because there was a man entertaining us on his keyboard. Once again, this may sound a bit of a cliche, but regulars and new customers seemed to lap up the background music as they tucked into their food  perhaps because it makes them feel like they are on holiday.
The Italian Way is a BYO restaurant, which means you can take your own alcohol with you, which is another great factor in these credit crunch times.
So what about the food itself?
The simple but extensive  and reasonably priced  menu features a range of starters from just 4.50. After much deliberation, we plumped for the calamari, bruschetta and mozzarella and tomato salad. It was even more difficult deciding on the mains as there really is so much for choose from.
For those who love traditional Italian fare theres a great range of pizza and pasta dishes, from as little as 7. There are also plenty of fish and meat dishes, including a selection of specials. For those who want to really push the boat out, steak is priced from 12.95.
I opted for one of my favourite pasta dishes  tagliatelle with meatballs in a tomato sauce while my friends chose the calzone and the penne pasta with chilli.
Although it was a busy evening, our food didnt take too long to arrive and the staff were friendly and helpful.
There was plenty of calamari and it wasnt too chewy, which can often be the case. The batter was also crispy and not at all greasy.
The crunchy bruschetta was smothered in a tasty tomato base and the salad was fresh and appetising.
As far as the mains were concerned, the meatballs were really tender and the tomato sauce had a real zing to it. The pasta was al dente, just the way I like it.
I thought my friend might struggle with the calzone  an Italian turnover made from pizza dough and stuffed with cheese  as it looked rather on the large side, but it was so tasty that she scoffed the lot. Once again, it was perfectly cooked and the cheese melted in the mouth.
The penne was also al dente and the sauce really packed a punch. While it would have been far too hot for me to enjoy, my chilli-loving friend cleaned her plate.
Although there was a tempting selection of desserts on offer, including tiramisu, cheesecake and creme caramel, we were a little full after our two courses each to order any.
Instead, we topped up our wine glasses, sat back and listened to the musician entertaining us  and for a few minutes allowed ourselves to think we were on Lake Garda rather than in a busy Cardiff suburb.
We will definitely go back for more  and will leave some room for the pudding next time.
In spite of awesome competition, this is still the best pizza place in the city. An oak-burning oven turns out exceptionally doughy but light-crusted pizzas, with choices ranging from the plain Paradiso, which offers chunks of tomatoes covered in melted mozzarella, to the robust Siciliana, a blend of 10 ingredients including eggplant and red onion. Or you can choose your own toppings from a list of 35. As popular as the pizza is the panini of homemade focaccia, stuffed with marinated roasted lamb and vegetables, and the salads, such as the panzanella (thick crusts of bread with chopped zucchini and peppers tossed with balsamic vinegar and olive oil). In 2009, Paradiso moved up the street to this twice-the-size location and added a Birerria Paradiso, like the one its Georgetown sister Paradiso has, at 3282 M St. NW (tel. 202/337-1245). A third location has recently opened in Old Town Alexandria, at 124 King St. (tel. 703/837-1245).
Here's the news Dupont Circle pizza and beer fans have been waiting for: Pizzeria Paradiso opens tomorrow at 2003 P St. NW -- just down the street from its original location.
The biggest change is a bigger space -- more than 80 seats in the new building as opposed to 35 in the old townhouse. This means there's also room for a 15-seat bar that will mimic Birreria Paradiso, the popular beer bar at Georgetown's Pizzeria Paradiso. Bar manager Greg Jasgur says there are 180 bottles, 12 draft lines and one English-style cask ale. Here's the cool part: "Right now, there's no overlap [between the beer lists in Georgetown and Dupont]," he says. So if you want to try the Bear Republic Nor Cal, a limited "California bitter," or the new Allagash Fluxus 09, a saison brewed with sweet potato and black pepper, then you'll have to go to Dupont Circle.
Sometime next week, a 12-table patio will be added, but it's currently closed because of construction work being done to the building.
The hours at the new location will remain the same: 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and open until midnight on Friday and Saturday. Sunday hours are noon to 10 p.m. The Tuesday and Wednesday happy hour means half-price beers from 5 to 7.
Oh, and as always, there are no reservations taken -- seating is first-come, first served.
Chaos. Tasty, tasty chaos. A partnership between chefs Ken Oringer and Jamie Bissonnette, Coppa is tiny, insanely crowded, and totally wonderful. Like Oringer's Toro a few blocks away, it's a neighborhood party with great food: Italian-inspired small plates, salumi, pasta, and pizza crafted from local, seasonal ingredients. -The Boston Globe
Many of the menu choices here come from the eponymous wood-burning brick oven, which turns out surprisingly delicate pizzas simply topped with tomato and fresh buffalo mozzarella. But though its pizzas receive top billing, Antico excels at a variety of Italian country dishes. Don't overlook the hearty baked dishes and handmade pastas; the specialty, gnocchi, is rich and creamy but light. The joint is cramped and noisy, but also homey and comfortablewhich means that your meal will resemble a raucous dinner with an adopted Italian family.
After being priced out of its former Jamaica Plain digs, this 18-year-old restaurant-cum-nightclub moved to a new spot nearby. Not much has changed: sci-fi jokes are still sprinkled across this spot's spaced-out menu of eccentric pizzas, calzones, and Italian standards. Menu favorites remain, including the "Pizza Menino" (named for the city's mayor), topped with pepperoni, sausage, mushrooms, and peppers, and the "Diedre Delux," which mixes dried cranberries, caramelized onions, and Gorgonzola cheese. Works by local artists line the walls, and local musicians provide the music in its lounge, the Milky Way. (The weekly schedule ranges from jazz to salsa.) The only reason to mourn Luna's old location? The new space has no room for a bowling alley.
A sophisticated but unpretentious enclave of nouveau Italian, Bricco has carved out quite a following. And no wonder: the handmade pastas alone are argument for a reservation. Simple but well-balanced main courses such as roast chicken marinated in seven spices and a brimming brodetto (fish stew) with half a lobster and a pile of seafood may linger in your memory. You're likely to want to linger in the warm room, too, gazing through the floor-to-ceiling windows while sipping a glass of Sangiovese from the Italian and American wine list.
Here's the kind of undeniably friendly, downright cute hole-in-the-wall that keeps the neighborhood real. With seating for 40, Carmen keeps its capacity crowds happy with glasses of wine and small tapas-style plates of roasted red pepper and olives at the up-front bar. At tables, meanwhile, diners tuck into clean-flavored specials such as creamy homemade pappardelle with mushroom ragu. Desserts and coffee, however, aren't on the menu.
Eating here is like sitting at the grown-up table for the first time. Comfy armchairs and a grand, high-ceilinged dining room give diners a sense of self-importance. Come at lunch, like the rest of the city's power elite, for great pastas (half portions are available) and oversize salads. For dinner, patrons rushing off to the theater grab a quick bite at the barothers are in for a lengthy meal, since the kitchen's focus on sophisticated Italian cuisine makes every meal a special occasion. Those lucky enough to snag Pats' tickets can enjoy Davio's food at the new Patriots Place outpost, right next to Gillette Stadium, on game day.
Don't let the clichd name fool you: Mamma Maria is far from a typical red-sauce joint, although some locals find the service lacking. From the handmade wild-mushroom ravioli to the authentic sauces and entres to some of the best desserts in the North End, you can't go wrong here. The view, meanwhile, is lovely; gaze out onto cobblestone-lined North Square as you finish your pappardelle layered with braised rabbit and a finale of limoncello (an Italian lemon-flavored liquor).
This teeny trattoriajust eight tablesis worth the wait, with excellent country Italian favorites such as rigatoni with white beans and arugula, a veal scaloppini with sweet onion balsamic glaze, and a light-but-filling zuppa di pesce. The best choice could well be the classic linguini, accompanied by a bottle of Vernaccia. Pomodoro doesn't serve dessert, but it's easy to find great espresso and pastries in the cafs on Hanover Street.

Spaghetti Bolognese; lasagne; garlic bread; pepperoni pizza and tagliatelli carbonara.

There’s no evidence of any of these Italian restaurant clichés on the menu at Casanova’s and this was the first of a number of signs that Mrs G and I were in for a treat......Other good omens included:

A couple of other Cardiff based foodies I’d spoken to over the course of last week were pretty vehement that Casanova is the best Italian restaurant in Cardiff.

The first page of Casanova’s menu announces with pride the quality and seasonality of the produce they use. Organic vegetables are supplied locally from St Hilary riverside market garden; Welsh salt marsh lamb is supplied by J.T.Morgan and fresh fish is bought in from Ashton’s. 

Finally from the beginning to the end of the evening the service we received was friendly and knowledgeable. One of the owners Luca spoke to us passionately about the business he has built up with his 2 Italian business partners since 2005 and the produce (salamis, wines, oils etc) they buy direct from suppliers in Italy.


Casanova's evening menu is £18 for 2 courses of £24 for 3 courses.

Amuse bouche – Artichoke puree – A dainty little bowl of smooth and earthy Jerusalem artichoke soup drizzled with truffle oil and crisp shoestring potatoes. A lovely start to the meal, this little mouth pleaser demonstrated we weren’t about to eat a bog standard Italian meal.


Starter - Pancetta Arrosto - Slow roast pork belly with black pudding, lentils, baked apple and rosemary oil. Every texture, flavour and aroma worked together perfectly. This is the kind of dish I wish I could knock up in my own kitchen; plenty of meat and bags of flavour.


Starter - Scallop served with chickpea fritter and fennel salad. The beautifully sweet scallop and sharply dressed fennel salad were a perfect marriage. The crisp chickpea fritter was good but I felt it overpowered the delicateness of the scallop. In my opinion another scallop wouldn’t have gone amiss too (especially in light of the £3 supplement on the menu for this dish).


Main - Lamb ragu served with Calabrian pasta and dried ricotta. A supremely meaty sauce scattered with chunks of lamb coated every orifice of the al dente pasta. The creamy dried ricotta was a nice change from the sometimes overwhelming parmesan.


Main - Cassuoela – A traditional Milanese stew jam packed with melt in the mouth pieces of pork shoulder, a coarse cut sausage (heavily seasoned with aniseed), slices of carrot and Savoy cabbage all brought together by a flavoursome vegetable and white wine stock. These humble ingredients combined to produce a dish of regal proportions. This is the kind of wintery comfort food I’d happily eat any night of the week in this frosty weather.


All in the name of reviewing we pushed through the pudding pain barrier.

Tiramisu – I’d heard great things about Casanova’s tiramisu and it didn’t disappoint. It wasn’t on the menu but a brief enquiry later and a plate of the good stuff arrived. With sponge soaked with plenty of booze and quality coffee, rich shards of dark chocolate and plenty of cream and cocoa powder what isn’t there to love?


Torta Caprese –Crisp on the outside and gooey on the inside, this traditional Italian chocolate and almond cake reminded of a gooey chocolate nut brownie. It was served with a nutty chocolate sauce and smooth (homemade tasting) vanilla gelato. Bang on.


Maintaining a fairly low key profile in the Cardiff dining scene, it’s pretty clear Casanova are ticking over happily based on word of mouth. However, in my view they deserve a far higher profile than some of the more famous Cardiff Italian restaurants. If you want to eat some food a little closer to the kind of thing you'd get in Italy then I'd strongly suggest a visit.

I’ve finally succeeded in working my way through my Groupon stockpile. Last on the list was Lorenza’s Italian restaurant and as our voucher was due to expire in a couple of weeks, we decided we’d celebrate Tuesday night with a meal out. 

Lorenza’s fits the description of a local Italian restaurant perfectly. However it’s more tastefully decorated than some of the more dated joints I’ve come across in Cardiff and their menu of pizza, pastas, carne and pesci specials, is that little bit more exciting than the average. For instance pastas include paccheri (tube shaped pasta) served with homemade sausage, porcini mushrooms and cream. Service is warm and friendly if slightly on the laidback side. We waited a little bit longer than I would have liked between starters and mains, especially when the restaurant was fairly quiet. 

Last time we dined at Lorenza’s we both ate a really good fillet steak with red wine sauce and so tonight we decided we’d explore the menu more widely. For starters I opted for funghi trifolati (£4.75); mushrooms cooked with garlic, parsley and a hint of chilli served on toasted bread. This was really quite disappointing. The mushrooms were no different to those I would expect to be served with a fry up at a greasy spoon café. There was no real taste of garlic, chilli or parsley. Mrs G opted for a very simple yet tasty bruschetta romana (£3.45); toasted bread with tomatoes, olive oil, garlic, oregano & anchovies.  Nice and fresh tasting in comparison to my dish this was a very pleasant, light way to start the meal. 

All the fried mushrooms were missing was an egg and a slice of black pudding
Bruschetta - tastes as appears
Onto mains and this is where the chef of Lorenza’s showed his cooking ability. I opted for a zuppa di pesce (£14.95). I’ve been looking for a decent iteration of this dish to live up to my favourite version from our local Italian when we lived in Chester. Lorenza’s version gave it a pretty good run for its money. Stacks of beautifully cooked pieces of gurnard, mussels and king prawns served in a light and fresh tasting tomato soup with whole cherry tomatoes, celery and carrot. It was seasoned well with parsley, basil and a hint of chilli. The portion was epic and the small accompanying fingers of lovely, crispy garlic toasts were all that was necessary. The other half opted for a crab risotto (£11.95). Served rather prettily in a scallop shell with a twirl of leek on top, this dish was also top notch. Perfectly cooked risotto, not too claggy, not too wet, this dish had tons of crab taste and just the right hint of chilli to cut through the richness of the dish. Another real winner. 

A super zuppe
Crab risotto - I've never seen leek like it before
Suitably stuffed, we paid the bill and headed home (via KFC for a mini Krushem). We seriously enjoyed our main courses and agree that we’d pay full price for both of these dishes. However, what with the half price Groupon deal in addition, this was remarkably good value for money. 

Ordinarily, prices on the menu at Lorenza’s are fairly reasonable and they have some other very good value special offers to tempt you in – during midweek 2 courses and a glass of wine will set you back £9.95 and they’re also running their own Groupon style voucher scheme where you can purchase a voucher for £40 of food for £20 from the restaurant directly. 

It requires a certain sibling relationship to be able to go into business with your closest of kin and make a success of it. Much as I love my brother I think we’d drive each other crazy within 5 minutes. However, if managed successfully, the closeness, support & even competition that having a brother or sister in the same line of work brings can provide a catalyst for excellence; think the Roux brothers, Gallagher brothers, Neville brothers, Chuckle brothers and lastly the Sanchez-Iglesias brothers. 

You’re perhaps wondering who and why the Sanchez-Iglesias brothers are featured in the aforementioned list of illustrious names. It’s because Jonray and Peter Sanchez-Iglesias are the culinary geniuses who own and run Bristol’s multi-award winning, modern Italian restaurant Casamia. Awarded their first Michelin star at the ages of 23 and 25 and winners of Gordon Ramsay’s British restaurant of the year 2010, my birthday meal cooked by the Sanchez-Iglesias brothers last night is the reason why I am once again lamenting the lack of quality high dining options in Cardiff.

Casamia is located in the village of Westbury-on-Trym, just a couple of miles outside the centre of Bristol. Visually, the restaurant has an understated feel which starts from the almost hidden entrance down an alley (our taxi driver had to point out the subtly branded metal gates) and continues to the interior of brick arches, white walls and endearingly quaint pictures of Venice. In fact except for the furniture and sophisticated table settings, Casamia could be any local Italian restaurant. This is explained by the fact that when Casamia first opened, it was run by the family as a traditional Italian restaurant for seven years before Jonray and Peter took the reins with their creative vision of contemporary Italian cuisine.  

Whilst the décor of Casamia is understated, the food is the opposite; traditional Italian ingredients with bold flavours are given a creative twist to produce exceptional dishes. The meal last night was one of the finest I have ever eaten and is perhaps second only to Simon Rogan’s L’enclume in terms of creative wizardry.

The dinner menu is restricted to a choice between a 5 course (£45) and 8 course (£68) seasonal tasting menu. As it was a special occasion and we are very greedy there was no question that we were going to opt for the larger of the 2 menus and what with the inclusion of a couple of extra freebie bonus courses and an optional extra cheese course (£10) we calculated that by the end of the evening we had pushed close to the 12 course mark. Mrs G was nearly defeated by the quantity of food. However, I can proudly announce that I wiped clean every single plate clean and finished off quite a lot of the wife’s as well. 

Before I move onto the main event I should just mention the friendly and highly competent service. It was interesting to note that almost every dish was served by one of the chefs who cooked it. It’s a rather nice touch having the person who’s cooked your dish with such passion present it and introduce it to you at the table. I’ve never experienced this before and wonder whether this is a trend which began at Noma (I saw it on Masterchef!) which is gradually beginning to spread further afield? Jonray in fact served one of our courses and I was taken aback by how friendly, down to earth and normal he seemed. We had a brief chat about his beloved Manchester United. It was apparent the success of owning and cooking in one of Britain’s best restaurants hasn’t brought an ego to match.

So onto the food and I’ll sum up my review now in case you don’t make it through the marathon of photos. The food being cooked at Casamia by the Sanchez-Iglesias brothers is truly inspired and I urge anyone in Cardiff who is looking to dine out for a special occasion to make the pilgrimage to Bristol. 

Nibbles to start the meal included crisp salted almonds & macademia nuts, fresh & flavoursome green olives, a beatifully fresh focaccia with a good flavour of olive oil and the highlight of homemade breadsticks with an unbelievably good white truffle creme fraiche dip.




First Course - Scrambled duck egg, smoked duck, thyme. Almost creamy scrambled egg, almost veloute; flecked with pieces of smoked duck and wittily served in an egg case, this was eggcelent.


Second Course - Wild boar salami, Sheep's curd, carrots, pesto. A perfect balance of flavours and visually stunning on the plate; the sheep's curd cheese was creamy and packed full of flavour as was the salami, the pesto delivered an intense basil hit, whilst the light leaves and carrot puree softened the dish.


Third Course - Beetroot, barley, iced yoghurt, pickled fennel - Essentially a beetroot risotto but with barley subsituted for rice. The sweetness of the beetroot was well balanced by the yoghurty sorbet. In addition some crunchy barley on top of the dish provided a welcome textural constrast. This was Mrs G's favourite dish.


Fourth Course - Salmon poached in olive oil, Italian garnishes, Jekka's herb sauce. I remember this dish from the Ramsay's best restaurant TV programme as some customers were put off by the appearance of the salmon. The sousvide method of cooking the salmon results in it appearing raw even though it is perfectly cooked so that it melts in the mouth. This is one of the most tender pieces of fish I have ever eaten. My only criticism of the dish was that the flavour of the salmon was a little lost behind a lovely creamy fennel sauce and a garnish of caperberries. There were some delighfully crisp pieces of lemon skin sitting on top of the salmon; I could have eaten a whole bag of them.


Fifth Course - Iberico pork, mushroom, apple sauce, celery root. There were some big flavours going on in this dish which in the wrong hands could have overpowered the delicacy of this beautiful piece of pork. However, the acidic apple sauce (hiding in a little jar at the top of the screen) cut through the intensity of the white truffle risotto perfecly to bring the taste of the pork to the fore. 


Sixth Course - Cheeses. A lovely selection of local cheeses; a mature brie, a caerphilly, a stilton-esque number and something else. 


Seventh Course - Cherry sorbet, Aged balsamic (20 years) - A really interesting palate cleanser. The balsamic vinegar tasted like eating a wooden barrel on its own but provided a wonderful earthy, smokiness to the dish.


Eighth Course - A salted chocolate mousse with bits of lavender on top. We were brought a complimentary glass of fizz with the dish which was a lovely touch. The mousse was rich and chocolatey with a hint of salt running through it. I am a massive fan of salty, sweet things so this ticked every box.


Ninth Course - Pine nut pannacotta, amalfi lemon sorbet, smell of the amalfi coast. This dish was breathtakingly theatrical in its presentation. We were presented with a bowl of lemons over which was poured liquid nitrogen to create a wonderfully fresh aroma. The theatre which preceded the dish was not let down by the dish which followed; a creamy, wobbly, subtly pinenut flavoured panacotta was balanced beautifully by a sharp lemon sorbet. This was my standout dish of the evening. Wow.




Tenth Course - Traditional Tiramasu (1981) the smell of Renato's Numero Uno. A simple, perfect Tiramisu. A jar of coffee beans with a beautifully intense aroma of coffee was presented with the dish.  A touching message explained why the brothers had decided to include a traditional tiramisu on the menu as it was the dish which inspired their love of Italian cookery. I must admit I've only ever eaten tiramisu with alcohol in it before and the absence of it in this iteration provided a welcome lightness to the dish as we were both getting pretty full by this point.


Coffee and Petit Fours - An excellent cup of decaffinated coffee. Specially made chocolates included milk chocolate, banana and passion fruit as well as dark chocolate & juniper berry (I've never tasted juniper berry outside of a gin context and it was deliciously different). A silver dish of the softest, wobbliest rose turkish delight inspired by Narnia was also served. Finally a dehydrated chocolate biscuit was brought out by the chef which we were recommended to consume immediately. This was because the biscuit had been dehydrated in liquid nitrogen and so was still cold and released a puff of smoke from our mouths on consumption. Brilliant fun.


The details: Casamia, http://www.casamiarestaurant.co.uk, 38 High St, Westbury Village, Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, BS9 3DZ, Tel: 0117 959 2884

I was asked to review Filini's at the Radisson Blu Hotel on behalf my parents who are thinking of having a family pre-wedding get together there the night before our big day. I'd never normally consider eating in a hotel restaurant, perhaps it's the vision of Alan Partridge having a dinner for one at the Linton Travel Tavern, but on this occasion I was prepared to make an exception for my dearest parents (and they offered to pay).

It's the dining area
The Radisson Blu is a pretty impressive modern tower just opposite the entrance to the new John Lewis and inside the decor has a sophisticated and contemporary feel.This vibe extends to the Filini dining room which is a mix of simple wood furniture, banquette seating and walls lined with coolers containing a seemingly extensive selection of wine. My criticism of the dining space would be its lack of natural light and atmosphere. On arrival for our booking at 7pm we were the only diners in the restaurant and throughout the evening only two more tables became occupied. One contained a solitary business man reading a book and the other a couple of young arty types, also on business. I can imagine this is an issue with many a hotel restaurant; pretty dead save for those dining on expenses. If only a handful more people were prepared to forgo their room service club sandwich and get sociable, the atmosphere would have been that much better.

So what was the food like? Filini is billed as a contemporary Italian restaurant and the food on offer appeared to live up to the billing. To start with, we shared a 'large' Meat and Vegetable Antipasti (£14.50). At a push I would have described this plate of food as 'medium' in sized. In comparison to the Antipasto Massimo! at Carluccio's I felt it didn't cut it in terms of flavour, size or price. The dish comprised of a couple of slices each of very average chorizo and salami, some pretty good bresaola, deliciously smoky chargrilled courgette, run of the mill dressed leaves and black olives. The stand out of the dish was some intensely sweet yet acidic balsamic pickled onions. Bread, olive oil and balsamic vinegar accompanying the starter was delightfully warm and fresh. Of the 3 types on offer (we snaffled the lot), an olive bread was the pick of the bunch.

Do you think that's large?
Mains were a bit hit and miss. The other half's Roast Sea Bass (£17.50) with lemon and herbs was cooked to perfection. The skin was wonderfully crisp and the flesh moist and meaty. The sauce it was served had an intense and creamy taste of shellfish. Seriously moreish; if only I hadn't eaten all the bread it could have been put to better use. My rib eye steak with pizzaiola sauce however was not so top dollar. The steak was ordered rare yet was cooked to medium-well. Way off the mark by any chef's standards. The meat had a good taste to it but there was definitely an element of the chew factor which is a bit of a disappointment when paying north of the £20 mark. Rather peculiarly, my dish was also accompanied by some hot balsamic pickled onions (remember these?). I'd said they were tasty with the starter but wouldn't go so far as to say I was ready for their sequel 20 minutes later.  Other sides included black pepper and Parmesan fries (£2.50) which were nice but could have been a little crisper and cheesier as well as a Tomato and Cucumber salad (£2.50). The salad provided some freshness to the main and was served with a lovely pesto dressing.

Seabass

A rare steak?
Onto the puds. We decided to order off the bar menu for dessert as nothing really caught our eye off the standard menu. I opted for a blackberry and apple crumble (£5.50) which could have served three (I think the description 'large' would have been more appropriate here than for the antipasti). The crumble topping was deliciously er....crumbly and infused beautifully with the taste of cinnamon. The contents underneath was packed full of apples and blackberries of just the right sweetness. Dani opted for a caramel and pecan cheesecake (£5.50) which was just a bit 'meh'. The base wasn't particularly crisp and although there was an identifiable taste of caramel and pecan, it was definitely leaning towards the bland side.

A tasty crumble

A not so tasty cheesecake
So all in all a mixed bag. Service was exceptionally friendly throughout the evening, which goes a very long way indeed. Food was also excellent and mediocre in places. However, I fear the nature of the business target audience extends over into some of the rather steep prices on offer. In light of the vast array of mid-week dining out offers in Cardiff I can't really see Filini ever being packed to the rafters. Perhaps a week day set menu wouldn't go amiss? I'm undecided as to whether I'm going to recommend Filini to my parents for the pre-wedding shindig or not. I'll think I'll just let them read and make their mind up themselves.

The Details: Filini, Radisson Blu, Bute Terrace, Cardiff, CF10 2FL, Telephone: 02920454777, Web: http://www.radissonblu.co.uk/hotel-cardiff/dining 

I've been getting Groupon offers emailed to me over the last 6 months and nothing caught my attention until a couple of weeks ago when an offer for £40 worth of food for £16 at Mediterraneo dropped into my inbox. We've been to Mediterraneo's quite a few times and as far as neighbourhood Italian restaurants go I think it's pretty good, if a little on the pricey side. So as far as I was concerned, the Groupon offer was too good to pass up and I was interested to see if there would be any implications for our meal in terms of quality (would they skimp on portions knowing we're on a deal?) or service (I noticed over 700 people also bought the same deal!)? Well the answer is mixed....

We decided to make our booking for a Sunday evening and on arrival could immediately see the impact Groupon must be having on January trade. The restaurant was over 2/3 full compared to another Sunday we had dined when there must have only been 4 people in the place and this led to service being a little less than smooth at times. We waited over 45 minutes for our starters and it was only with a bit of gentle prodding that they turned up soon afterwards; a glass of wine which was ordered never turned up and it took a good while for someone to take our dessert orders. However it must be said that throughout the evening, the staff were warm and friendly which went someway towards compensating for the timing issues.

Onto the food and I'm glad to say that the quality was up to its usual standard. However, this isn't to say that all the dishes were a resounding success:

Starters included a good example of Calamari served with an enjoyably garlicky aioli. The batter was light and crisp and there was a reassuring lack of chew to the squid. Other starters included a Bruschetta pomodoro with anchovies. It was described as light and fresh with the anchovies (which were initially forgotten) providing an extra dimension to an otherwise pretty standard dish.

Calimari with aioli

Bruschetta pomodo e anchovies
Mains were also largely a success. I plumped for the spaghetti with chorizo and grappa. The spaghetti was beautifully al dente and combined with the chorizo, cream, grappa and tomatoes to make a delicously rich yet moreish combination. I must admit I couldn't particularly pick out the taste of grappa but to be honest I wouldn't know what I'm looking for!

Spaghetti chorizo e grappa
My other half's risotto was less of a success in my eyes. On paper, the dish had the potential to have stacks of flavour, combining scallops, leeks, pancetta, white wine and lemon zest. However, in reality it was just a little bland. The 4 plump scallops served on top were looked delicious but I had a taste of the risotto itself and felt that as well as somewhat lacking in flavour it didn't have the sauciness that a good risotto should and instead leaned towards the texture of a slightly dried out rice pudding.

Risotto Cappesante
The 2 other diners chose a veal with white wine, mushrooms and cream which was "slightly overdone but the creamy white wine sauce was delicious and accompanying veg were perfectly cooked" and a lasagne which had "a delicious tomato base with loads of meat and a lovely creaminess to it."

Vitello panna e funghi	

Lasagne
I was getting pretty full by the time we got to dessert and was considering passing it up. However I couldn't be outdone by Rhys "the bottomless pit" who when questioned whether he was going to be taking up the challenge retorted with the classic rhetoric "does a bear shit in the woods?" My dessert turned out to be my biggest disappointment of the evening. An Opera gateau which supposedly combined multiple types of chocolate with a coffee ganache turned out to be a very bog standard, slightly on the dry side and bought in tasting chocolate cake (although the portion size was huge!). I had to ask for jar of cream to help it on its way. Rhys 'the bottomless pit' described his raspberry creme brulee as a 6/10. 

Opera gateau	
Raspberry creme brulee
In spite its faults, our Sunday night at Mediterraneo turned out to be a very enjoyable evening. As far as neighbourhood Italian restaurants go I think it's a pretty safe option and I'll be going back in a flash if the same offer is ever on again.

How things change - I came here with two friends mid-2011 year and it was fine. Contrast this with my experience with one friend in late February 2012.

a) we entered at 8pm and a waitress gave us a menu proudly boasting a two-course deal *on the front cover*, only to be told when we tried to order that this menu was not available after 7pm;

b) the waitress took our drinks order, but walked away whilst my dining companion was in mid-sentence with her order;

c) the waiter seemed preoccupied with two young female Spanish tourists, flirting and regularly leaning over their table to read their map (and pointing his bottom in my face whilst doing so), and shouting conversation with them even whilst he was in the process of servicing our table;

d) the icing on the cake was when the waiter shook my hand. It was to 'congratulate' me for persuading my female dining companion into paying the bill for me (a male) and he then made a big thing about Italian men never letting a woman pay for them! I found it inappropriate but my dining companion was shocked, particularly as neither of us is a regular at this restaurant and had never met this waiter before.

Food was overall average. I am all for supporting small local businesses but I shan't be back here for a while. I would caution anyone else considering patronising this establishment to beware. 

When I moved to London eight years ago, the Italian Kitchen was a welcome surprise and a regular haunt. In the past, it boasted an extensive menu that had innovative takes on traditional dishes.

BUT (and this is an important but) two years ago they slashed their menu by more than half. Conveniently however, they have left their older, more impressive menu online to fool unsuspecting customers.

I discovered this when I took a group of 15 there for my birthday. Not only was the selection pathetically slim, the preparation of the food was amateurish, sloppy, and simply unappetizing. I was so mortified I wound up picking up the check for the entire party, not feeling comfortable asking friends to pay for the experience.

Over two years later, the Italian Kitchen still posts an inaccurate menu on their site, making them not merely an inadequate restaurant, but either lazy or dishonest as a business. While it has always looked like a cheap tourist trap, now it actually is one. 

Have been here half a dozen times now over the past two years and it's always been up and down. After the last visit, however, I will not be going back. Mushroom bruschetta was literally mushrooms on toast - no herbs, no chopped onion, not even any seasoning. My pizza base was thick and undercooked and absolutely slathered in tomato paste. The ham topping looked like reformed ham slices that you buy in the fridge at Tesco and were only lukewarm. My largely untouched plate was collected with absolutely no comment. The food of my fellow diners was a little better, but presentation was mediocre and everything looked like it had just been thrown onto the plates with little care or thought. Disappointing. 

We went to the Italian Kitchen on Saturday as a party of 18. I had been and looked at the venue earlier in the day and was slightly worried by the shabbiness of the restaurant, but we all agreed that the food and service were excellent and would definitely go back. 

very very nice nite out, the pasta very tasty and good portions and the seabass with the black rice very good combination of flavours.The restaurant was full and lively and the service very (italian) friendly and polite (very rare nowdays) they reccomended us the tiramisu and it was....to die for.We'll definitiley go back and very good value for money. 

3 years after having a very nice meal at the Italian Kitchen, we went there again last night as part of a group of 6. it was the most dreadful meal I have ever had. Calamares with zucchini was fine but the portion was tiny, and my breaded veal was as dry as a bone and served with some very old potatoes that I think had been sauteed a good while back. They were soggy, grey and tasted foul. There was nothing by way of garnish except a sliver of lemon. My partner and another of our party had seafood pasta, neither of them could eat it. Lasagna, was OK but had a sweet, 'jammy' flavour. Bruschetta was "OK ish", the only edible dish was penne with tomato sauce. Frascati was thin and acidic. Staff surly. 

Arrived here at 7pm as previuolsy agreed with owner for short notice booking for 9 people! We had previously been told that the table would be needed at 8.30 which to us was not a problem. Service was swift , but not uncomfortably so , food was great my son declaring his pizza the best ever! Lasagne , lamb and various pasta was enjoyed by all- and even having a starter as a main course for someone in the party with a smaller appetite was not a problem. Tiramasu and panacotte were wonderful.

The waiter came over about 8:25 to say if we wanted to squeeze up he only needed one of our tables to accomodate other diners and we could linger as long as we needed.

All in the party agreed we would return another time as service great, food great atmosphere great.We had Main course , sweet and drink and was about £20 per head fatastic for London - Also if you eat before 5 they do a special £7.95 menu.

Why has 'Gary' written two reviews having a go at Italian restaurants? Why is he so down on Italy? I grew up in Italy and I'm slightly offended by that. I don't know where he's been visiting, but it's nowhere I've been. There are many many nice tratorrias in every place where you can have a starter, nice hearty pasta and wine for less than 25 euros each if you just know where to go. You've been ripped off mate!

Anyway, I like Italian Kitchen. I've loved it for years. The food is nice and authentic. The prices are a little more than I'd like but this is the West End. The staff are very nice.

I can not tell you if what people below saying it's a bit hit and miss now is right or not, but it has always been lovely when I have eaten there. 

Olivios Bistro is a new Simi Valley restaurant located in the Albertsons shopping center on Madera. We decided to try it because they were offering a gift certificate on Restaurant.com for $25 off $50.

Bruschetta - free!

The restaurant was nearly empty on a Saturday night, which is often a bad sign. However, with the place being new and trying to lure customers by offering discounts, I hoped it was just that no one knew about it yet. We were instantly impressed by how clean and crisp the restaurant is--all the tables are dressed in white linens, and the summer evening sun gives the dining room a pleasing natural glow.  

Bread - free!

The next pleasant surprise was the free bread our server brought us. Free bread is always a plus, but when it's a hunk of boring French bread, you don't feel like you're getting anything special. Olivios served us garlic herb rolls, sundried tomato foccacia, crispy, garlicky bruschetta, and olive tapenade. They even offered us seconds.

Crab cake appetizer - $11.95

The portion size of the crab cake appetizer was generous--it would make a good light lunch on its own. I appreciated that it came with salad, because I didn't want to pay for two appetizers. The menu didn't seem to have an option for an inexpensive side salad with an entree. They do have two salads for $5.95, but I'd like it if a small salad came with my meal or cost only a couple dollars extra. But this is only a minor complaint.

Corn chowder - $3.95

The corn chowder (the soup of the day) was also generously portioned, delicious, and a meal in its own right for a light eater.

Pappadelle - $12.95

The pasta at Olivios is obviously homemade. You can tell right away from the texture--it's lighter and has a different bite than dried, mass-produced pasta. If you like puttanesca sauce, you'll like this dish. It doesn't have olives, capers, or anchovies, but it is a salty, hearty, non-boring tomato sauce with ground lamb, eggplant, spinach, and tomato.

As much as I loved this dish, it would be difficult to return to Olivios and not order the lobster ravioli (lead photo), which was probably even tastier.


Cheese tortellini in pesto cream sauce - $11.95

The only snafu of the evening involved the cheese tortellini. The server must have misheard the order and brought out the wrong dish. I think a good server can avoid this problem by always reading back diners' orders before placing them with the kitchen. Our waiter brought the correct dish to the table within minutes, but in the restaurant's haste to make up for the error, the pasta was a bit undercooked, and I thought the sauce was too salty (but then, I don't really care for pesto in any case). Still, we were willing to forgive them since everything else was top notch.

Warm chocolate cake - $5.95

I have to admit that from the menu description, I thought this dessert would be pretty dull. Also, I'm not really a chocolate lover--I tend toward the fruity and vanilla-flavored desserts. But this cake was a very dark chocolate and had the consistency of a flourless cake. It was difficult to not eat more than my fair share of it.


Creme brulee - $5.95

All creme brulee tastes the same to me, but that doesn't mean I don't like it. Olivios is also offering a free dessert promotion on their website when you sign up for their email list.

Dining room

Overall, I think Olivios is one of the best restaurants in Simi Valley. The service is fantastic, the food is high quality yet affordable, the dishes are beautifully presented, and it's one of the few places in town that is a bit upscale (though it's still comfortable). I can't wait to go back. 

Gnocchi al pomodoro e basilico

With its location near Ralph's in the Wood Ranch shopping center, you probably wouldn't think to try Viva La Pasta for dinner unless you had heard good things about it. Despite the cheesy name, I decided to try it because it had lots of good reviews on Yelp! They also send out lots of coupons in the mail, which I guess finally wore me down. Besides, there are not a ton of dinner options in Simi Valley that aren't chains. I figure I might as well attempt to eat at them all. There are more independent restaurants than you would think, but it takes a bit of effort to not just fall back on Chili's or TGIFridays.


Minestrone soup

Viva La Pasta has much in common with Two Guys from Italy, a German/Italian (mostly Italian) restaurant I'm quite fond of in Moorpark. Soup or salad comes with all the entrees (though it's a less generous portion of soup). You can create your own pasta from among 29 sauces and 11 types of pasta (one of which is gnocchi, my favorite). They also have chicken, beef, veal, and seafood entrees; pizza; and panini.


Side salad with vinaigrette

The minestrone soup was good--not really noteworthy in any way, but good. The side salad contained a mix of good lettuce and crappy iceberg lettuce, some quirky chickpeas, a wedge of refrigerated (read: mealy) tomato, and a lone pitted kalamata olive. Despite the mediocre veggies, the vinaigrette dressing I chose made the salad quite good. I usually just order vinaigrette because it is the least bad salad dressing option at restaurants (ranch belongs on buffalo wings, not lettuce), but this vinaigrette was zingy, with plenty of vinegar and garlic. It had the thin consistency of a homemade vinaigrette and none of that artificial, gloppy thickness that some bottled vinaigrettes have. The server, though clearly having a bad day or not much of a people person, was nice enough to tell me that a salad came with my meal when I tried to order an appetizer salad.


Italian sausage and roasted peppers

Ah, the service. That was really the only off-putting part of the meal. When we asked for a few more minutes to read the menu, our waiter took way too long to return. Our water was only refilled once, some time in the first ten minutes of our visit. Wines by the glass are not listed on the wine menu, so you have to ask about them, which means you don't get information about prices or options up front. (They don't appear to serve any alcohol besides wine, but maybe you have to inquire about that, too.) Our server seemed distressed that we tried to order dishes by name instead of by number. One member of our party, who wanted to have cheesecake for her meal, was served her "entree" before we even got our soups and salads. However, the rest of the food did arrive quickly.


Risotto Misto

The risotto misto--arborio rice prepared with chicken breast and Italian sausage in a chicken broth, white wine, and saffron sauce, was just okay. For some reason I was expecting it to be creamier, but re-reading the menu description, I realize that it doesn't say anything about cheese being an ingredient. The sausage was particularly good, and the dish was better with some red pepper flakes, although the spice tended to overwhelm the dish's mild flavor. At least it was filling, but I prefer my homemade gorgonzola risotto and I would try a different dish next time. There are only two risottos on the menu, so it doesn't seem to be one of the restaurant's specialties. This one was about $15.

The gnocchi al pomodoro e basilico (lead photo, potato pasta in a tomato and basil sauce) was a create-your-own pasta option. The gnocchi were neither too fluffy nor too dense, and their irregular shapes indicated that they were most likely homemade. The sauce was perfect--a little sweet, a little salty. If only they sold sauce like this in jars at the grocery store. If you're a light eater, this dish will give you enough to take half home, but if you're a big eater, you might think the dinner portion looks like a lunch portion. I thought the portions were the right size and commensurate with the price. This dish was only $10.


Cheesecake

The cheesecake also tasted homemade--a little on the salty side and not overly dense or creamy like Cheesecake Factory cheesecake, but a little lighter, like the cheesecake you get at Persian restaurants. The portion is reasonable enough that you can eat the whole thing yourself without going up a size.


Cannoli

I love cannoli. This rendition reminded me of the one at Two Guys, but the filling was a tad lighter. When you eat the hard outer shell and the thick, creamy filling together, it tastes similar to a glazed donut.

Overall, everyone enjoyed their food and thought the prices and portions were reasonable. We all agreed that we'd go back, too. The dining room atmosphere is classier than Two Guys and this is one of a few tablecloth restaurants in Simi (nevermind the white paper covering the tablecloth), but it's still casual enough that I would call it a long-term relationship date restaurant. I would pick someplace fancier and with more enthusiastic service if you're trying to impress.

Viva La Pasta has lots of enticing promotions that make the restaurant a great bargain. A dinner for two that includes soup or salad, entree, coffee, dessert, and a bottle of wine is $34.95--for both people, not per person (look for a coupon in the mail, or print it from their website). Sunday brunch is $16.95. There are daily specials that come with soup or salad, an entree, and dessert. And you can get gift certificates on Restaurant.com for $25 off a $50 meal. Restaurant.com often has 80% off sales, so you can get a $25 gift certificate for $2 instead of the usual $10.

Viva La Pasta isn't perfect, but on the whole, I recommend it.

ägerschnitzel

Our party of five showed up at Two Guys From Italy on a Thursday night around 7:30. We were a little taken aback at first because we were asked to wait for a table and the restaurant looked nearly empty. But then a friendly woman told us that she had two large parties coming in and she wanted to give us a quiet table in the back where another group was finishing up. Once we found out that the wait was to try to give us a better experience, we didn't mind. I used the time to peruse the menu, and started falling in love with the restaurant as soon as I hit the beer list. Just to have a beer list that consists of something more interesting than Corona and Heineken is exciting; to have a full-page list of interesting German brews, complete with descriptions, is a godsend for beer lovers. (They also have a wine list for you oenophiles.)

Contrary to its name, Two Guys From Italy is actually run by "a chick from Bavaria," as owner Valeria refers to herself. She purchased the restaurant in 1998 and has allowed her native southern German cuisine to influence a small part of the menu (ten entrees). The rest of the menu is Italian--awfully good Italian that you'd never guess came from a German. The lengthy menu would take weeks to eat through--there are eleven types of pasta and twenty-six sauces that you can combine any way you want, along with several meat and seafood entrees and pizza. If you want to try to get through the menu a little faster, you can try the restaurant's lunch buffet.


Tortellini con nocini

The tortellini con nocini is one of the create-your-own pasta options. The nocini is a creamy gorgonzola sauce with walnuts and one of the best pasta sauces we've ever tried. The chicken Marco Polo, two thin, juicy chicken breasts with mushrooms and artichokes in a slightly tangy, deliciously heart-attack-inducing cream sauce, was also a winner. If you're sharing plates though, don't order these two dishes--the flavors of the different sauces clash with each other.


Rouladen

A recent trip to Germany and a couple of years of German lessons had me in full-on trip nostalgia mode, so I ordered a German beer (Wiesen Edel-Weisse) and a German entree, the rouladen, which is a three-quarter-inch thick piece of beef rolled around pickled vegetables, onions, and bacon and drenched in gravy. I can't say I've ever had this dish before, so I didn't have anything to compare it to. The beef was moist and tender, and while I was somewhat concerned about the pickles being overpowering, I didn't even notice them. The onions were similarly mild. The dish paired wonderfully with the beer, which was served in the correct glass and expertly poured by the waiter. The dish came with a side of spaetzle, a sort of fried, homemade noodle-dumpling perfect for sopping up excess gravy, and sweet-tart braised red cabbage (not pictured).

All of the entrees come with your choice of soup or salad (the lentil soup tastes wonderfully homemade) and a basket of warm bread and olive tapenade (that doesn't taste like a tin can).


Cannoli

Of the items on the dessert list, the tiramisu and cannoli are made in house and the rest come from outside vendors. The cannoli's thick, crunchy, bubbly shell oozes with dense, super-sweet cream that has a hint of vanilla.


I'm not a cannoli expert, but I really loved this one. Like a Sprinkles cupcake, however, it's perhaps too much of a sugar high for one person.


Tiramisu

As for the tiramisu, I think that once you've had one tiramisu, you've had them all. This one didn't change my mind--not that it wasn't good, it just didn't wow me. We also tried the blackout cake, which was similarly good but generic.


Blackout cake

The service at this restaurant is superb. Of the many servers we interacted with, all were friendly, pleasant, and seemed happy to be there. All of our dishes arrived promptly. Valeria, the owner, visited our table several times during the meal. The decor is, shall we say, very red and green, with lots of hanging plants, a wall of mirrors and some neon (yes, it's a bit dated). There's nothing trendy or showy about Two Guys, and it's not the kind of place you take someone who is hard to impress. It's just a casual, comfortable, reasonably priced restaurant with excellent food and excellent service. And that's why I like it.

Meatball sandwich

I know, I know. You can't believe I would actually eat at a restaurant called Valley's Pizza Land. The name says it all, doesn't it? This is just further evidence for why you only dine on the Westside.

Well, you're partially right. I didn't eat at Pizza Land, I had it delivered. The only reason I considered this place at all is because delivery options in some parts of the Valley are pretty scant, so when a restaurant menu shows up on your doorstep that isn't for pizza or Chinese food, it's a pretty exciting day.

But Pizza Land is a pizza place, you say. Well, that's only sort of true. You see, Pizza Land is also a Middle Eastern restaurant in disguise.


Beef kebab plate

We ordered a variety of dishes out of morbid curiosity. Was there any chance that a pizza place could actually make decent kebabs and grape leaves? The answer seems to be no.

I started with the beef kebab plate, which comes with lavash (the interracial love child of a tortilla and some pita bread), hummus, rice or french fries, roasted vegetables, and a little cucumber/tomato salad. The charred green pepper gave this dish a wonderful aroma--that is, until I actually got the beef pieces close to my nose. They had the aroma of something I might feed my cats if I were seeking revenge for the latest overturning of the bathroom trash can. I just couldn't bring myself to eat more than two bites of this mysterious meat that had the texture of beef, but smelled more like rotting chicken. I feared food poisoning, but it never surfaced. The french fries were hopelessly soggy, so I saved them as leftovers for future revival in my toaster oven. I decided to make a meal out of wrapping lavash around pieces of red onion, cucumber, and tomato and dipping them into the somewhat watery but otherwise hummus. At least the bread was warm and soft. The entire dish was only $8, so I can't really say that I feel ripped off. It's more that, had the meat actually been good, I would have found a killer deal. Oh, and if you're wondering why I ordered french fries when I could have had rice, which travels much better, it was the morbid curiosity getting to me again.


Eggplant parmesan with spinach linguine

In contrast to the beef kebabs, the eggplant parmesan was delicious. Eggplant is easy to screw up--I've done it many times myself. I've also eaten many frozen eggplant dishes from Whole Foods where the eggplant is hopelessly undercooked. Pizza Land's eggplant was cooked to melt-in-your-mouth perfection. I would definitely order this dish again. It's also only $8 and, for me, enough food for two to three meals.


Dolmas

I really like dolmas when they're done well, but most of my experiences with these rice and meat-stuffed grape leaves have been ill-fated. Pizza Land makes the worst grape leaves I've ever encountered. By the time they arrived at my door, they were both soggy and hard at the same time, the rice undercooked, the leaves overcooked to a putrid green-yellow, and the beef the same rank-smelling concoction that was used for my kebabs. This dish made me feel like I'd really like my $6 back. Maybe if I steam them and pour tomato sauce on top, I can make them palatable. I hate wasting food.


Deep fried ravioli

We ordered the deep fried ravioli expecting toasted ravioli--a fantastic dish rarely seen outside of St. Louis, but given the oddities of the rest of the menu, it seemed plausible that this dish had made it to a Valley pizzeria/kebab hut. But no, they actually took pieces of ravioli and deep-fried them, resulting in a dish with a bizarrely leathery appearance and a pasta shell that gave a new meaning to "al dente."

The "homemade meatball" sandwich was a riot. It actually tasted quite good, but the "meatballs" were not ball-shaped at all and looked a little like spam and it could have used more filling to balance out all the bread. The sandwich was also $8 and came with fries.

In addition to the bizarre assortment of dishes you've read about in this review, Pizza Land also serves fish and chips, "deep fried creamy jalapeno," baby back ribs, and "sea fairer delight" (fish and shrimp). Oh, and pizza.

Despite the oddities and horribly inconsistent food, I actually plan to order from Pizza Land again. Next time I'm going to be a little more adventurous and try a khachapure, a dish made of bread filled with egg, cheese, and sometimes other fillings. It has about a 50% chance of being good, but I've never had this dish before, so at least it will be an adventure. I'll also re-order the eggplant and venture into some other dishes. Maybe I'll even try the pizza.

Because how can you not love a place this weird?

Tortelloni di Melanzane

Pecorino, a hard-to-spot restaurant in Brentwood’s Little Italy, serves traditional rustic Italian fare plus a few innovative creations in a cozy setting. Unlike the Italian restaurants of the suburbs, Brentwood’s eateries are small and cozy and serve smaller portions of less-Americanized dishes, and Pecorino is no exception.

The clientele also reflect the expensive neighborhood: businessmen still in their suits, ladies who lunch, and retired couples. Exposed red brick walls, dark wooden ceiling beams, and traditional white linen tablecloths create a setting that is part modern industrial loft, part your wealthy grandparents' dining room.

Moderately low lighting from the wrought-iron chandeliers overhead and flickering candles on every table bathes the entire room in a warm glow, and tantalizing scents occasionally waft from the partially exposed kitchen. Chef Raffaele Sabatini and his twin brother Mario, are natives of Abruzzo, a region in central Italy that lies 70 miles east of Rome.

The staff made an excellent first impression by insisting on opening the front door and giving us a generous table for four when we were only two. They also honored our request for a quiet table in the back, though noise may not have been an issue no matter where we were seated. Unlike many of LA’s upscale eateries, Pecorino does not ignore the comfort of its diners to make an extra buck by cramming as many tables into their space as possible; instead, they have preserved the privacy that is part of any enjoyable dining experience by spacing the tables at least an arm's length apart.

Acoustics are also well-designed here: even when full, the dining room is reasonably quiet, making it a great place for closing a real estate deal, catching up with old friends, or holding hands across the table with your significant other.
Filetto di bue in salsa

Despite Pecorino’s warm interior, the restaurant can feel a bit pretentious to those who aren’t part of the scene—your first choice after being seated will be whether to pay $7 a bottle for mineral water or endure the supposed indignity of requesting tap. I can't help but wonder if thus signaling to the staff that you have no intention of dropping a week’s pay on your dinner will result in an evening of mediocre service.

Despite the ridiculous markup on water, refills on fountain drinks are free and frequent, and many of Pecorino’s dishes are reasonably priced enough that you can easily control the cost of your meal. Appetizers, soups, and salads range from $8-19. Primi range from $11-22 and secondi range from $25-44. Desserts are $7-8. If you're on a budget, you could order only a primi (pasta dish) and your bill would be pretty reasonable. Though the primi are small and perhaps not enough food to fill up on, to order both a primi and a secondi would be major overkill, despite what their category names imply.

Of course, if you're out for an evening of excess, you could easily spend $75 or more per person on insalata di avocado, burrata cheese with roasted bell peppers, filet mignon, a bottle or two of cabernet, a sampling of cheeses, tiramisu, and espresso. (It’s worth noting here that diners can take a bite out of any bill of $50 or more by purchasing a $25 certificate on Restaurant.com for $10 before leaving home—just make sure to use the certificate Monday through Thursday and present it before you start ordering. The meal reviewed here, including one glass of wine, one soft drink, tax, and tip, cost about $100. Don’t expect to leave with leftovers.

Though the menu’s dishes are listed in Italian, descriptions beneath each item prevent the selection from being intimidating. The filetto di bue in salsa is a ten-ounce filet mignon in shallot and red wine sauce, served alongside olive oil mashed potatoes with green onion. Though the hunk of meat with lumpy sauce next to a sloppy scoop of lumpy mashed potatoes did not make for an attractive presentation, the generous portions, lightly tangy sauce, and properly cooked meat made up for it. While some restaurants will not cook a steak medium rare out of fear of the health department, Pecorino had no qualms about complying with our request. The mashed potatoes, while an interesting idea for a variation on a traditional dish, would have tasted better with salted butter instead of olive oil and far fewer green onions, if the onions even added anything at all.


Dining room

The tortelloni di melanzane consisted of fresh pasta filled with pureed eggplant and ricotta in a light cherry tomato stew. The pasta was definitely al-dente: not how I like it, but admittedly the proper way to cook pasta. The filling did not have a great deal of flavor on its own, a disappointment given the rich, smoky flavor of properly cooked eggplant, so the pasta was left to rely entirely on the sauce and a generous sprinkling of freshly-grated parmesan cheese for flavor. Fortunately, the sauce was mellow but bright, with tomatoes, garlic, and herbs providing a welcome explosion of summer flavor on a cool winter evening. More sauce, or perhaps more flavor in the filling, would have made for a tastier dish. The glass of pinot grigio I ordered to accompany my dish was uninspiring—perhaps I should have asked the waiter for wine suggestions.


Pear and white chocolate mousse

Like most dessert menus, Pecorino’s is pretty predictable: tiramisu, crème brulee, ice cream, sorbet. For a restaurant that strives to remain true to its European roots, the dessert menu was noticeably absent of any fruit-based dishes, unless you count the sorbets. We ordered two of the more creative-sounding items, pear and white chocolate mousse and chocolate mint mousse.


The pear and white chocolate mousse was confusingly named for two reasons: one, it was not a poached pear accompanied by fluffy white chocolate mousse, as I had imagined, and two, there was no hint of pear flavor whatsoever in either the mousse or the sauce that surrounded it. A few errant


